.\" -*- nroff -*-
.\" Copyright (c) 2015      University of Houston.  All rights reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2015      Mellanox Technologies, Inc.
.\" $COPYRIGHT$
.de Vb
.ft CW
.nf
..
.de Ve
.ft R

.fi
..
.TH "SHMEM\\_SWAP" "3" "#OMPI_DATE#" "#PACKAGE_VERSION#" "#PACKAGE_NAME#"
.SH NAME

\fIshmem_double_swap\fP(3),
\fIshmem_float_swap\fP(3),
\fIshmem_int_swap\fP(3),
\fIshmem_long_swap\fP(3),
\fIshmem_swap\fP(3),
\fIshmem_int4_swap\fP(3),
\fIshmem_int8_swap\fP(3),
\fIshmem_real4_swap\fP(3),
\fIshmem_real8_swap\fP(3),
\fIshmem_longlong_swap\fP(3)
\- Performs an atomic swap to a remote data object
.SH SYNOPSIS

C or C++:
.Vb
#include <mpp/shmem.h>

double shmem_double_swap(double *target, double value,
  int pe);

float shmem_float_swap(float *target, float value, int pe);

int shmem_int_swap(int *target, int value, int pe);

long shmem_long_swap(long *target, long value, int pe);

long long shmem_longlong_swap(long long *target,
  long long value, int pe);

long shmem_swap(long *target, long value, int pe);
.Ve
Fortran:
.Vb
INCLUDE "mpp/shmem.fh"

INTEGER pe

INTEGER SHMEM_SWAP
ires = SHMEM_SWAP(target, value, pe)

INTEGER(KIND=4) SHMEM_INT4_SWAP
ires = SHMEM_INT4_SWAP(target, value, pe)

INTEGER(KIND=8) SHMEM_INT8_SWAP
ires = SHMEM_INT8_SWAP(target, value, pe)

REAL(KIND=4) SHMEM_REAL4_SWAP
res = SHMEM_REAL4_SWAP(target, value, pe)

REAL(KIND=8) SHMEM_REAL8_SWAP
res = SHMEM_REAL8_SWAP(target, value, pe)
.Ve
.SH DESCRIPTION

The atomic swap routines write \fBvalue\fP
to address target on PE \fBpe\fP,
and return
the previous contents of \fBtarget\fP
in one atomic operation.
.PP
The arguments are as follows:
.TP
target
The remotely accessible integer data object to be updated on the remote PE. If
you are using C/C++, the type of target should match that implied in the SYNOPSIS section. If
you are using Fortran, it must be of the following type:
.RS
.TP
\fBSHMEM_SWAP:\fP Integer of default kind
.TP
\fBSHMEM_INT4_SWAP:\fP 4\-byte integer
.TP
\fBSHMEM_INT8_SWAP:\fP 8\-byte integer
.TP
\fBSHMEM_REAL4_SWAP:\fP 4\-byte real
.TP
\fBSHMEM_REAL8_SWAP:\fP 8\-byte real
.RE
.RS
.PP
.RE
.TP
value
Value to be atomically written to the remote PE. value is the same type as target.
.TP
pe
An integer that indicates the PE number on which target is to be updated. If you are
using Fortran, it must be a default integer value.
.PP
.SH NOTES

The term remotely accessible is defined in \fIintro_shmem\fP(3)\&.
.SH RETURN VALUES

The contents that had been at the target address on the remote PE prior to the swap is
returned.
.SH SEE ALSO

\fIintro_shmem\fP(3)
