.\" -*- nroff -*-
.\" Copyright (c) 2015      University of Houston.  All rights reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2015      Mellanox Technologies, Inc.
.\" $COPYRIGHT$
.de Vb
.ft CW
.nf
..
.de Ve
.ft R

.fi
..
.TH "SHMEM\\_GLOBAL\\_EXIT" "3" "#OMPI_DATE#" "#PACKAGE_VERSION#" "#PACKAGE_NAME#"
.SH NAME

shmem_global_exit
\- A routine that allows any PE to force termination of an entire program.
.SH SYNOPSIS

C or C++:
.Vb
#include <mpp/shmem.h>
void shmem_global_exit(int status);
.Ve
Fortran:
.Vb
include 'mpp/shmem.fh'
INTEGER STATUS
CALL SHMEM_GLOBAL_EXIT(status)
.Ve
.SH DESCRIPTION

shmem_global_exit()
shmem_global_exit is a non-collective routine that allows any one PE to force termination of an Open-
SHMEM program for all PEs, passing an exit status to the execution environment. This routine terminates
the entire program, not just the OpenSHMEM portion. When any PE calls shmem_global_exit, it results in
the immediate notification to all PEs to terminate. shmem_global_exit flushes I/O and releases resources
in accordance with C/C++/Fortran language requirements for normal program termination. If more than
one PE calls shmem_global_exit, then the exit status returned to the environment shall be one of the values
passed to shmem_global_exit as the status argument. There is no return to the caller of shmem_global_exit;
control is returned from the OpenSHMEM program to the execution environment for all PEs.
.SH SEE ALSO

\fIintro_shmem\fP(3),
\fIshmem_my_pe\fP(3),
\fIshmem_init\fP(3)
