.\" -*- nroff -*-
.\" Copyright (c) 2016      Mellanox Technologies, Inc.
.\" $COPYRIGHT$
.de Vb
.ft CW
.nf
..
.de Ve
.ft R

.fi
..
.TH "SHMEM\\_FETCH" "3" "Unreleased developer copy" "gitclone" "Open MPI"
.SH NAME

\fIshmem_int4_fetch\fP(3),
\fIshmem_int8_fetch\fP(3),
\fIshmem_int_fetch\fP(3),
\fIshmem_long_fetch\fP(3),
\fIshmem_longlong_fetch\fP(3)
\fIshmem_double_fetch\fP(3)
\fIshmem_float_fetch\fP(3)
\- Atomically fetches the value of a remote data object
.SH SYNOPSIS

C or C++:
.Vb
#include <mpp/shmem.h>

int shmem_int_fetch(int *target, int pe);

long shmem_long_fetch(long *target, int pe);

long long shmem_longlong_fetch(long long *target, int pe);

double shmem_double_fetch(long long *target, int pe);

float  shmem_float_fetch(float *target, int pe);
.Ve
Fortran:
.Vb
INCLUDE "mpp/shmem.fh"

INTEGER pe

INTEGER(KIND=4) SHMEM_INT4_FETCH, ires, target
ires = SHMEM_INT4_FETCH(target, pe)

INTEGER(KIND=8) SHMEM_INT8_FETCH, ires, target
ires = SHMEM_INT8_FETCH(target, pe)


REAL(KIND=4) SHMEM_INT4_FETCH, ires, target
ires = SHMEM_REAL4_FETCH(target, pe)

REAL(KIND=8) SHMEM_INT8_FETCH, ires, target
ires = SHMEM_REAL8_FETCH(target, pe)

.Ve
.SH DESCRIPTION

The shmem_fetch functions perform an atomic fetch operation. They return the contents of the
\fBtarget\fP as an atomic operation.

.PP
The arguments are as follows:
.TP
target
The remotely accessible data object to be fetched from the remote PE.
.TP
pe
An integer that indicates the PE number from which \fItarget\fP is to be fetched. If you are
using Fortran, it must be a default integer value.
.PP

.SH RETURN VALUES
The contents at the \fItarget\fP address on the remote PE. 
The data type of the return value is the same as the the
type of the remote data object.

.SH SEE ALSO

\fIintro_shmem\fP(3)
