Open MPI v6.1.x series
======================

This file contains all the NEWS updates for the Open MPI v6.1.x
series, in reverse chronological order.

Open MPI version v6.1.0
--------------------------
:Date: ...fill me in...

- Implemented ``MPI_Get_hw_resource_info()`` using hwloc. The returned
  info object now reports whether the calling process is restricted to
  individual NUMA nodes, packages, caches, cores, and processing units.
  The reported ``hwloc://`` resource keys can also be used with
  ``MPI_Comm_split_type()`` for hardware- and resource-guided communicator
  creation. Thanks to Musawer Ahmad Saqif for the contribution.

- Renamed the ``--enable-weak-symbols`` configure option to
  ``--enable-weak-aliases``, which more accurately reflects the linker
  feature (weak symbol *aliases*) that Open MPI actually tests for and
  uses.  ``--enable-weak-symbols`` is retained as a deprecated synonym.

- The documentation now publishes machine-readable, LLM-friendly
  artifacts for the public MPI APIs alongside the human-facing HTML and
  man pages: a JSONL API catalog, aggregate and per-interface Markdown
  corpora, per-symbol Markdown pages, curated examples, an interface
  guide, an ``ompi_info`` runtime-introspection guide (how to query an
  installed Open MPI for its version, configuration, components, and
  run-time MCA parameters), and a manifest, all indexed from
  ``llms.txt``. See the "LLM-friendly documentation artifacts" page in
  the developer documentation.
