.TH fabric 7 "2014\-12\-02" "Libfabric Programmer\[aq]s Manual" "\@VERSION\@"
.SH NAME
.PP
Fabric Interface Library
.SH SYNOPSIS
.IP
.nf
\f[C]
#include\ <rdma/fabric.h>
\f[]
.fi
.PP
Libfabric is a high-performance fabric software library designed to
provide low-latency interfaces to fabric hardware.
.SH OVERVIEW
.PP
Libfabric provides \[aq]process direct I/O\[aq] to application software
communicating across fabric software and hardware.
Process direct I/O, historically referred to as RDMA, allows an
application to directly access network resources without operating
system interventions.
Data transfers can occur directly to and from application memory.
.PP
There are two components to the libfabric software:
.PP
\f[I]Fabric Providers\f[] : Conceptually, a fabric provider may be
viewed as a local hardware NIC driver, though a provider is not limited
by this definition.
The first component of libfabric is a general purpose framework that is
capable of handling different types of fabric hardware.
All fabric hardware devices and their software drivers are required to
support this framework.
Devices and the drivers that plug into the libfabric framework are
referred to as fabric providers, or simply providers.
Provider details may be found in fi_prov.
.PP
\f[I]Fabric Interfaces\f[] : The second component is a set of
communication operations.
Libfabric defines several sets of communication functions that providers
can support.
It is not required that providers implement all the interfaces that are
defined; however, providers clearly indicate which interfaces they do
support.
.PP
The fabric interfaces are designed such that they are cohesive and not
simply a union of disjoint interfaces.
The interfaces are logically divided into two groups: control interfaces
and communication operations.
The control interfaces are a common set of operations that provide
access to local communication resources, such as address vectors and
event queues.
The communication operations expose particular models of communication
and fabric functionality, such as message queues, remote memory access,
and atomic operations.
Communication operations are associated with fabric endpoints.
.PP
Applications will typically use the control interfaces to discover local
capabilities and allocate necessary resources.
They will then allocate and configure a communication endpoint to send
and receive data, or perform other types of data transfers, with remote
endpoints.
.SH CONTROL INTERFACES
.PP
The control interfaces APIs provide applications access to network
resources.
This involves listing all the interfaces available, obtaining the
capabilities of the interfaces and opening a provider.
.PP
\f[I]fi_getinfo - Fabric Information\f[] : The fi_getinfo call is the
base call used to discover and request fabric services offered by the
system.
Applications can use this call to indicate the type of communication
that they desire.
The results from fi_getinfo, fi_info, are used to reserve and configure
fabric resources.
.PP
fi_getinfo returns a list of fi_info structures.
Each structure references a single fabric provider, indicating the
interfaces that the provider supports, along with a named set of
resources.
A fabric provider may include multiple fi_info structures in the
returned list.
.PP
\f[I]fi_fabric - Fabric Domain\f[] : A fabric domain represents a
collection of hardware and software resources that access a single
physical or virtual network.
All network ports on a system that can communicate with each other
through the fabric belong to the same fabric domain.
A fabric domain shares network addresses and can span multiple
providers.
libfabric supports systems connected to multiple fabrics.
.PP
\f[I]fi_domain - Access Domains\f[] : An access domain represents a
single logical connection into a fabric.
It may map to a single physical or virtual NIC or a port.
An access domain defines the boundary across which fabric resources may
be associated.
Each access domain belongs to a single fabric domain.
.PP
\f[I]fi_endpoint - Fabric Endpoint\f[] : A fabric endpoint is a
communication portal.
An endpoint may be either active or passive.
Passive endpoints are used to listen for connection requests.
Active endpoints can perform data transfers.
Endpoints are configured with specific communication capabilities and
data transfer interfaces.
.PP
\f[I]fi_eq - Event Queue\f[] : Event queues, are used to collect and
report the completion of asynchronous operations.
For example, the completion of a data transfer operation submitted over
a fabric endpoint may write an event to an event queue associated with
the endpoint.
There are multiple types of event queues, and the format of the events
that they report are controlled by applications.
.PP
\f[I]fi_cntr - Event Counters\f[] : Event counters are used to report
the number of completed asynchronous operations.
Event counters are considered light-weight, in that a completion simply
increments a counter, rather than placing an entry into an event queue.
.PP
\f[I]fi_mr - Memory Region\f[] : Memory regions describe application
local memory buffers.
In order for fabric resources to access application memory, the
application must first grant permission to the fabric provider by
constructing a memory region.
Memory regions are required for specific types of data transfer
operations, such as RMA transfers (see below).
.PP
\f[I]fi_av - Address Vector\f[] : Address vectors are used to map higher
level addresses, such as IP addresses, which may be more natural for an
application to use, into fabric specific addresses.
The use of address vectors allows providers to reduce the amount of
memory required to maintain large address look-up tables, and eliminate
expensive address resolution and look-up methods during data transfer
operations.
.SH DATA TRANSFER INTERFACES
.PP
Fabric endpoints are associated with multiple data transfer interfaces.
Each interface set is designed to support a specific style of
communication, with an endpoint allowing the different interfaces to be
used in conjunction.
The following data transfer interfaces are defined by libfabric.
.PP
\f[I]fi_msg - Message Queue\f[] : Message queues expose a simple,
message-based FIFO queue interface to the application.
Message data transfers allow applications to send and receive data with
message boundaries being maintained.
.PP
\f[I]fi_tagged - Tagged Message Queues\f[] : Tagged message lists expose
send/receive data transfer operations built on the concept of tagged
messaging.
The tagged message queue is conceptually similar to standard message
queues, but with the addition of 64-bit tags for each message.
Sent messages are matched with receive buffers that are tagged with a
similar value.
.PP
\f[I]fi_rma - Remote Memory Access\f[] : RMA transfers are one-sided
operations that read or write data directly to a remote memory region.
Other than defining the appropriate memory region, RMA operations do not
require interaction at the target side for the data transfer to
complete.
.PP
\f[I]fi_atomic - Atomic\f[] : Atomic operations can perform one of
several operations on a remote memory region.
Atomic operations include well-known functionality, such as atomic-add
and compare-and-swap, plus several other pre-defined calls.
Unlike other data transfer interfaces, atomic operations are aware of
the data formatting at the target memory region.
.SH PROVIDER REQUIREMENTS
.PP
Libfabric provides a general framework for supporting multiple types of
fabric objects and their related interfaces.
Fabric providers have a large amount of flexibility in selecting which
components they are able and willing to support, based on specific
hardware constraints.
To assist in the development of applications, libfabric specifies the
following requirements that must be met by any fabric provider, if
requested by an application.
(Note that the instantiation of a specific fabric object is subject to
application configuration parameters and need not meet these
requirements).
.IP \[bu] 2
A fabric provider must support at least one endpoint type.
.IP \[bu] 2
All endpoints must support the message queue data transfer interface.
.IP \[bu] 2
An endpoint that advertises support for a specific endpoint capability
must support the corresponding data transfer interface.
.IP \[bu] 2
Endpoints must support operations to send and receive data for any data
transfer operations that they support.
.IP \[bu] 2
Connectionless endpoints must support all relevant data transfer
routines.
(send / recv / write / read / etc.)
.IP \[bu] 2
Connectionless endpoints must support the CM interfaces for getname,
getpeer, and connect.
.IP \[bu] 2
Connectionless endpoints that support multicast operations must support
the CM interfaces join and leave.
.IP \[bu] 2
Connection-oriented interfaces must support the CM interfaces getname,
getpeer, connect, listen, accept, reject, and shutdown.
.IP \[bu] 2
All endpoints must support all relevant \[aq]msg\[aq] data transfer
routines.
(sendmsg / recvmsg / writemsg / readmsg / etc.)
.IP \[bu] 2
Access domains must support opening address vector maps and tables.
.IP \[bu] 2
Address vectors associated with domains that may be identified using IP
addresses must support FI_SOCKADDR_IN and FI_SOCKADDR_IN6 input formats.
.IP \[bu] 2
Address vectors must support FI_ADDR, FI_ADDR_INDEX, and FI_AV output
formats.
.IP \[bu] 2
Access domains must support opening event queues and counters.
.IP \[bu] 2
Event queues must support the FI_EQ_FORMAT_CONTEXT format.
.IP \[bu] 2
Event queues associated with data transfer completions must support the
FI_EQ_FORMAT_DATA format.
.IP \[bu] 2
Event queues associated with tagged message transfers must support the
FI_EQ_FORMAT_TAGGED format.
.IP \[bu] 2
A provider is expected to be forward compatible, and must be able to be
compiled against expanded \f[C]fi_xxx_ops\f[] structures that define new
functions added after the provider was written.
Any unknown functions must be set to NULL.
.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
\f[C]fi_getinfo\f[](3), \f[C]fi_endpoint\f[](3), \f[C]fi_domain\f[](3),
\f[C]fi_av\f[](3), \f[C]fi_eq\f[](3), \f[C]fi_mr\f[](3)
.SH AUTHORS
OpenFabrics.
