.TH fi_eq 3 "2014\-12\-15" "Libfabric Programmer\[aq]s Manual" "\@VERSION\@"
.SH NAME
.PP
fi_eq - Event queue operations
.PP
fi_eq_open / fi_close : Open/close an event queue
.PP
fi_eq_read / fi_eq_readerr : Read an event from an event queue
.PP
fi_eq_write : Writes an event to an event queue
.PP
fi_eq_sread : A synchronous (blocking) read of an event queue
.PP
fi_eq_strerror : Converts provider specific error information into a
printable string
.SH SYNOPSIS
.IP
.nf
\f[C]
#include\ <rdma/fi_domain.h>

int\ fi_eq_open(struct\ fid_fabric\ *fabric,\ struct\ fi_eq_attr\ *attr,
\ \ \ \ struct\ fid_eq\ **eq,\ void\ *context);

int\ fi_close(struct\ fid\ *eq);

int\ fi_control(struct\ fid\ *eq,\ int\ command,\ void\ *arg);

int\ fi_eq_read(struct\ fid_eq\ *eq,\ uint32_t\ *event,
\ \ \ \ void\ *buf,\ size_t\ len,\ uint64_t\ flags);

int\ fi_eq_readerr(struct\ fid_eq\ *eq,\ struct\ fi_eq_err_entry\ *buf,
\ \ \ \ size_t\ len,\ uint64_t\ flags);

int\ fi_eq_write(struct\ fid_eq\ *eq,\ uint32_t\ event,
\ \ \ \ const\ void\ *buf,\ size_t\ len,\ uint64_t\ flags);

int\ fi_eq_sread(struct\ fid_eq\ *eq,\ uint32_t\ *event,
\ \ \ \ void\ *buf,\ size_t\ len,\ int\ timeout,\ uint64_t\ flags);

const\ char\ *\ fi_eq_strerror(struct\ fid_eq\ *eq,\ int\ prov_errno,
\ \ \ \ \ \ const\ void\ *err_data,\ void\ *buf,\ size_t\ len);
\f[]
.fi
.SH ARGUMENTS
.PP
\f[I]fabric\f[] : Opened fabric descriptor
.PP
\f[I]domain\f[] : Open resource domain
.PP
\f[I]eq\f[] : Event queue
.PP
\f[I]attr\f[] : Event queue attributes
.PP
\f[I]context\f[] : User specified context associated with the event
queue.
.PP
\f[I]event\f[] : Reported event
.PP
\f[I]buf\f[] : For read calls, the data buffer to write events into.
For write calls, an event to insert into the event queue.
For fi_eq_strerror, an optional buffer that receives printable error
information.
.PP
\f[I]len\f[] : Length of data buffer
.PP
\f[I]flags\f[] : Additional flags to apply to the operation
.PP
\f[I]prov_errno\f[] : Provider specific error value
.PP
\f[I]err_data\f[] : Provider specific error data related to a completion
.PP
\f[I]timeout\f[] : Timeout specified in milliseconds
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
Event queues are used to report events associated with control
operations.
They are associated with memory registration, address vectors,
connection management, and fabric and domain level events.
Reported events are either associated with a requested operation or
affiliated with a call that registers for specific types of events, such
as listening for connection requests.
.SS fi_eq_open
.PP
fi_eq_open allocates a new event queue.
.PP
The properties and behavior of an event queue are defined by
\f[C]struct\ fi_eq_attr\f[].
.IP
.nf
\f[C]
struct\ fi_eq_attr\ {
\ \ \ \ size_t\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ size;\ \ \ \ \ \ /*\ #\ entries\ for\ EQ\ */
\ \ \ \ uint64_t\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ flags;\ \ \ \ \ /*\ operation\ flags\ */
\ \ \ \ enum\ fi_wait_obj\ \ \ \ \ wait_obj;\ \ /*\ requested\ wait\ object\ */
\ \ \ \ int\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ signaling_vector;\ /*\ interrupt\ affinity\ */
\ \ \ \ struct\ fid_wait\ \ \ \ \ *wait_set;\ \ /*\ optional\ wait\ set\ */
};
\f[]
.fi
.PP
\f[I]size\f[] : Specifies the minimum size of an event queue.
.PP
\f[I]flags\f[] : Flags that control the configuration of the EQ.
.IP \[bu] 2
\f[I]FI_WRITE\f[] : Indicates that the application requires support for
inserting user events into the EQ.
If this flag is set, then the fi_eq_write operation must be supported by
the provider.
If the FI_WRITE flag is not set, then the application may not invoke
fi_eq_write.
.PP
\f[I]wait_obj\f[] : EQ\[aq]s may be associated with a specific wait
object.
Wait objects allow applications to block until the wait object is
signaled, indicating that an event is available to be read.
Users may use fi_control to retrieve the underlying wait object
associated with an EQ, in order to use it in other system calls.
The following values may be used to specify the type of wait object
associated with an EQ:
.IP \[bu] 2
\f[I]FI_WAIT_NONE\f[] : Used to indicate that the user will not block
(wait) for events on the EQ.
When FI_WAIT_NONE is specified, the application may not call
fi_eq_sread.
.IP \[bu] 2
\f[I]FI_WAIT_UNSPEC\f[] : Specifies that the user will only wait on the
EQ using fabric interface calls, such as fi_eq_sread.
In this case, the underlying provider may select the most appropriate or
highest performing wait object available, including custom wait
mechanisms.
Applications that select FI_WAIT_UNSPEC are not guaranteed to retrieve
the underlying wait object.
.IP \[bu] 2
\f[I]FI_WAIT_SET\f[] : Indicates that the event queue should use a wait
set object to wait for events.
If specified, the wait_set field must reference an existing wait set
object.
.IP \[bu] 2
\f[I]FI_WAIT_FD\f[] : Indicates that the EQ should use a file descriptor
as its wait mechanism.
A file descriptor wait object must be usable in select, poll, and epoll
routines.
However, a provider may signal an FD wait object by marking it as
readable, writable, or with an error.
.IP \[bu] 2
\f[I]FI_WAIT_MUTEX_COND\f[] : Specifies that the EQ should use a pthread
mutex and cond variable as a wait object.
.PP
\f[I]signaling_vector\f[] : Indicates which processor core interrupts
associated with the EQ should target.
.PP
\f[I]wait_set\f[] : If wait_obj is FI_WAIT_SET, this field references a
wait object to which the event queue should attach.
When an event is inserted into the event queue, the corresponding wait
set will be signaled if all necessary conditions are met.
The use of a wait_set enables an optimized method of waiting for events
across multiple event queues.
This field is ignored if wait_obj is not FI_WAIT_SET.
.SS fi_close
.PP
The fi_close call releases all resources associated with an event queue.
The EQ must not be bound to any other resources prior to being closed.
Any events which remain on the EQ when it is closed are lost.
.SS fi_control
.PP
The fi_control call is used to access provider or implementation
specific details of the event queue.
Access to the EQ should be serialized across all calls when fi_control
is invoked, as it may redirect the implementation of EQ operations.
The following control commands are usable with an EQ.
.PP
\f[I]FI_GETWAIT (void **)\f[] : This command allows the user to retrieve
the low-level wait object associated with the EQ.
The format of the wait-object is specified during EQ creation, through
the EQ attributes.
The fi_control arg parameter should be an address where a pointer to the
returned wait object will be written.
This should be an \[aq]int *\[aq] for FI_WAIT_FD, or \[aq]struct
fi_mutex_cond\[aq] for FI_WAIT_MUTEX_COND.
.IP
.nf
\f[C]
struct\ fi_mutex_cond\ {
\ \ \ \ pthread_mutex_t\ \ \ \ \ *mutex;
\ \ \ \ pthread_cond_t\ \ \ \ \ \ *cond;
};
\f[]
.fi
.SS fi_eq_read
.PP
The fi_eq_read operations performs a non-blocking read of event data
from the EQ.
The format of the event data is based on the type of event retrieved
from the EQ, with all events starting with a struct fi_eq_entry header.
At most one event will be returned per EQ read operation.
The number of bytes successfully read from the EQ is returned from the
read.
The FI_PEEK flag may be used to indicate that event data should be read
from the EQ without being consumed.
A subsequent read without the FI_PEEK flag would then remove the event
from the EQ.
.PP
The following types of events may be reported to an EQ, along with
information regarding the format associated with each event.
.PP
\f[I]Asynchronous Control Operations\f[] : Asynchronous control
operations are basic requests that simply need to generate an event to
indicate that they have completed.
These include the following types of events: memory registration,
address vector resolution, connection established, and multicast join.
.PP
Control requests report their completion by inserting a
\f[C]struct\ \ \ fi_eq_entry\f[] into the EQ.
The format of this structure is:
.IP
.nf
\f[C]
struct\ fi_eq_entry\ {
\ \ \ \ fid_t\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ fid;\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ /*\ fid\ associated\ with\ request\ */
\ \ \ \ void\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ *context;\ \ \ \ /*\ operation\ context\ */
\ \ \ \ uint32_t\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ data;\ \ \ \ \ \ \ /*\ completion\ dependent\ data\ */
};
\f[]
.fi
.PP
For the completion of basic asynchronous control operations, the
returned event will be to FI_COMPLETE.
The fid will reference the fabric descriptor associated with the event.
For memory registration, this will be the fid_mr, address resolution
will reference a fid_av, and CM events will refer to a fid_ep.
The context field will be set to the context specified as part of the
operation.
.PP
\f[I]Connection Request Notification\f[] : Connection requests are
unsolicited notifications that a remote endpoint wishes to establish a
new connection to a listening passive endpoint.
Connection requests are reported using
\f[C]struct\ \ \ fi_eq_cm_entry\f[]:
.IP
.nf
\f[C]
struct\ fi_eq_cm_entry\ {
\ \ \ \ fid_t\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ fid;\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ /*\ fid\ associated\ with\ request\ */
\ \ \ \ struct\ fi_info\ \ *info;\ \ \ \ \ \ \ /*\ endpoint\ information\ */
\ \ \ \ uint8_t\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ data[0];\ \ \ \ \ /*\ app\ connection\ data\ */
};
\f[]
.fi
.PP
Connection request events are of type FI_CONNREQ.
The fid is the passive endpoint.
Information regarding the requested endpoint\[aq]s capabilities and
attributes are available from the info field.
The application is responsible for freeing this structure by calling
fi_freeinfo when it is no longer needed.
The fi_info connreq field will reference the connection request
associated with this event.
To accept a connection, an endpoint must first be created by passing an
fi_info structure referencing this connreq field to fi_endpoint().
This endpoint is then passed to fi_accept() to complete the acceptance
of the connection attempt.
Creating the endpoint is most easily accomplished by passing the fi_info
returned as part of the CM event into fi_endpoint().
If the connection is to be rejected, the connreq is passed to
fi_reject().
.PP
Any application data exchanged as part of the connection request is
placed beyond the fi_eq_cm_entry structure.
The amount of data available is application dependent and limited to the
buffer space provided by the application when fi_eq_read is called.
The amount of returned data may be calculated using the return value to
fi_eq_read.
Note that the amount of returned data is limited by the underlying
connection protocol, and the length of any data returned may include
protocol padding.
As a result, the returned length may be larger than that specified by
the connecting peer.
.PP
\f[I]Connection Shutdown Notification\f[] : Notification that a remote
peer has disconnected from an active endpoint is done through the
FI_SHUTDOWN event.
Shutdown notification uses struct fi_eq_entry as declared above.
The fid field for a shutdown notification refers to the active
endpoint\[aq]s fid_ep.
The context field is set to NULL.
.SS fi_eq_sread
.PP
The fi_eq_sread call is the blocking (or synchronous) equivalent to
fi_eq_read.
It behaves is similar to the non-blocking call, with the exception that
the calls will not return until either an event has been read from the
EQ or an error or timeout occurs.
Specifying a negative timeout means an infinite timeout.
.SS fi_eq_readerr
.PP
The read error function, fi_eq_readerr, retrieves information regarding
any asynchronous operation which has completed with an unexpected error.
fi_eq_readerr is a non-blocking call, returning immediately whether an
error completion was found or not.
.PP
EQs are optimized to report operations which have completed
successfully.
Operations which fail are reported \[aq]out of band\[aq].
Such operations are retrieved using the fi_eq_readerr function.
When an operation that completes with an unexpected error is inserted
into an EQ, it is placed into a temporary error queue.
Attempting to read from an EQ while an item is in the error queue
results in an FI_EAVAIL failure.
Applications may use this return code to determine when to call
fi_eq_readerr.
.PP
Error information is reported to the user through struct
fi_eq_err_entry.
The format of this structure is defined below.
.IP
.nf
\f[C]
struct\ fi_eq_err_entry\ {
\ \ \ \ fid_t\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ fid;\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ /*\ fid\ associated\ with\ error\ */
\ \ \ \ void\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ *context;\ \ \ \ /*\ operation\ context\ */
\ \ \ \ uint32_t\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ index;\ \ \ \ \ \ /*\ index\ for\ vector\ ops\ */
\ \ \ \ int\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ err;\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ /*\ positive\ error\ code\ */
\ \ \ \ int\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ prov_errno;\ /*\ provider\ error\ code\ */
\ \ \ \ void\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ *err_data;\ \ \ /*\ additional\ error\ data\ */
};
\f[]
.fi
.PP
The fid will reference the fabric descriptor associated with the event.
For memory registration, this will be the fid_mr, address resolution
will reference a fid_av, and CM events will refer to a fid_ep.
The context field will be set to the context specified as part of the
operation.
.PP
The general reason for the error is provided through the err field.
Provider specific error information may also be available through the
prov_errno and err_data fields.
Users may call fi_eq_strerror to convert provider specific error
information into a printable string for debugging purposes.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.PP
fi_eq_open : Returns 0 on success.
On error, a negative value corresponding to fabric errno is returned.
.PP
fi_eq_read / fi_eq_readerr
.PD 0
.P
.PD
fi_eq_sread
.PD 0
.P
.PD
fi_eq_write : On success, returns the number of bytes read from or
written to the event queue.
On error, a negative value corresponding to fabric errno is returned.
On timeout, fi_eq_sread returns -FI_ETIMEDOUT.
.PP
fi_eq_strerror : Returns a character string interpretation of the
provider specific error returned with a completion.
.PP
Fabric errno values are defined in \f[C]rdma/fi_errno.h\f[].
.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
\f[C]fi_getinfo\f[](3), \f[C]fi_endpoint\f[](3), \f[C]fi_domain\f[](3),
\f[C]fi_cntr\f[](3), \f[C]fi_poll\f[](3)
.SH AUTHORS
OpenFabrics.
