.TH fi_getinfo 3 "2014\-11\-21" "Libfabric Programmer\[aq]s Manual" "\@VERSION\@"
.SH NAME
.PP
fi_getinfo / fi_freeinfo - Obtain / free fabric interface information
.SH SYNOPSIS
.IP
.nf
\f[C]
#include\ <rdma/fabric.h>

int\ fi_getinfo(int\ version,\ const\ char\ *node,\ const\ char\ *service,
\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ uint64_t\ flags,\ struct\ fi_info\ *hints,\ struct\ fi_info\ **info);

int\ fi_freeinfo(struct\ fi_info\ *info);

struct\ fi_info\ *fi_dupinfo(const\ struct\ fi_info\ *info);
\f[]
.fi
.SH ARGUMENTS
.PP
\f[I]version\f[] : Interface version requested by application.
.PP
\f[I]node\f[] : Optional, name or fabric address to resolve.
.PP
\f[I]service\f[] : Optional, service name or port number of address.
.PP
\f[I]flags\f[] : Operation flags for the fi_getinfo call.
.PP
\f[I]hints\f[] : Reference to an fi_info structure that specifies
criteria for selecting the returned fabric information.
.PP
\f[I]info\f[] : A pointer to a linked list of fi_info structures
containing response information.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
Returns information about available fabric services for reaching the
specified node or service, subject to any provided hints.
Callers must provide at least one of the node, service, or hints
parameters.
If no matching fabric information is available, info will be set to
NULL.
.PP
Based on the input hints, node, and service parameters, a list of fabric
domains and endpoints will be returned.
Each fi_info structure will describe an endpoint that meets the
application\[aq]s specified communication criteria.
Each endpoint will be associated with a domain.
Applications can restrict the number of returned endpoints by including
additional criteria in their search hints.
Relaxing or eliminating input hints will increase the number and type of
endpoints that are available.
Providers that return multiple endpoints to a single fi_getinfo call
should return the endpoints that are highest performing.
Providers may indicate that an endpoint and domain can support
additional capabilities than those requested by the user only if such
support will not adversely affect performance.
.PP
The version parameter is used by the application to request the desired
version of the interfaces.
The version determines the format of all data structures used by any of
the fabric interfaces.
Applications should use the FI_VERSION(major, minor) macro to indicate
the version, with hard-coded integer values for the major and minor
values.
The FI_MAJOR_VERSION and FI_MINOR_VERSION enum values defined in
fabric.h specify the latest version of the installed library.
However, it is recommended that the integer values for FI_MAJOR_VERSION
and FI_MINOR_VERSION be used, rather than referencing the enum types in
order to ensure compatibility with future versions of the library.
This protects against the application being built from source against a
newer version of the library that introduces new fields to data
structures, which would not be initialized by the application.
.PP
Either node, service, or hints must be provided, with any combination
being supported.
If node is provided, fi_getinfo will attempt to resolve the fabric
address to the given node.
The hints parameter, if provided, may be used to control the resulting
output as indicated below.
If node is not given, fi_getinfo will attempt to resolve the fabric
addressing information based on the provided hints.
.PP
The caller must call fi_freeinfo to release fi_info structures returned
by this call.
.SH FI_INFO
.IP
.nf
\f[C]
struct\ fi_info\ {
\ \ \ \ struct\ fi_info\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ *next;
\ \ \ \ uint64_t\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ caps;
\ \ \ \ uint64_t\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ mode;
\ \ \ \ enum\ fi_ep_type\ \ \ \ \ \ \ ep_type;
\ \ \ \ uint32_t\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ addr_format;
\ \ \ \ size_t\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ src_addrlen;
\ \ \ \ size_t\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ dest_addrlen;
\ \ \ \ void\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ *src_addr;
\ \ \ \ void\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ *dest_addr;
\ \ \ \ fi_connreq_t\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ connreq;
\ \ \ \ struct\ fi_tx_ctx_attr\ *tx_attr;
\ \ \ \ struct\ fi_rx_ctx_attr\ *rx_attr;
\ \ \ \ struct\ fi_ep_attr\ \ \ \ \ *ep_attr;
\ \ \ \ struct\ fi_domain_attr\ *domain_attr;
\ \ \ \ struct\ fi_fabric_attr\ *fabric_attr;
};
\f[]
.fi
.PP
\f[I]next\f[] : Pointer to the next fi_info structure in the list.
Will be NULL if no more structures exist.
.PP
\f[I]caps - fabric interface capabilities\f[] : If specified, indicates
the desired capabilities of the fabric interfaces.
Supported capabilities are listed in the \f[I]Capabilities\f[] section
below.
.PP
\f[I]mode\f[] : Operational modes supported by the application.
See the \f[I]Mode\f[] section below.
.PP
\f[I]ep_type - endpoint type\f[] : If specified, indicates the type of
fabric interface communication desired.
Supported types are listed in the \f[I]Endpoint types\f[] section below.
.PP
\f[I]addr_format - address format\f[] : If specified, indicates the
format of addresses referenced by the fabric interfaces and data
structures.
Supported formats are listed in the \f[I]Addressing formats\f[] section
below.
.PP
\f[I]src_addrlen - source address length\f[] : Indicates the length of
the source address (must be specified if \f[I]src_addr\f[] is
specified).
This field will be ignored in hints if FI_SOURCE is specified.
.PP
\f[I]dest_addrlen - destination address length\f[] : Indicates the
length of the destination address (must be specified if
\f[I]dst_addr\f[] is specified).
This field will be ignored in hints unless FI_SOURCE is specified.
.PP
\f[I]src_addr - source address\f[] : If specified, indicates the source
address.
This field will be ignored in hints if FI_SOURCE is specified.
.PP
\f[I]dest_addr - destination address\f[] : If specified, indicates the
destination address.
This field will be ignored in hints unless FI_SOURCE is specified.
.PP
\f[I]connreq - connection request\f[] : References a specific connection
request, otherwise the field must be NULL.
This field is used when processing connection requests and responses.
See fi_eq(3), fi_reject(3), and fi_endpoint(3).
.PP
\f[I]tx_attr - transmit context attributes\f[] : Optionally supplied
transmit context attributes.
Transmit context attributes may be specified and returned as part of
fi_getinfo.
When provided as hints, requested values of struct fi_tx_ctx_attr should
be set.
On output, the actual transmit context attributes that can be provided
will be returned.
Output values will be greater than or or equal to the requested input
values.
.PP
\f[I]rx_attr - receive context attributes\f[] : Optionally supplied
receive context attributes.
Receive context attributes may be specified and returned as part of
fi_getinfo.
When provided as hints, requested values of struct fi_rx_ctx_attr should
be set.
On output, the actual receive context attributes that can be provided
will be returned.
Output values will be greater than or or equal to the requested input
values.
.PP
\f[I]ep_attr - endpoint attributes\f[] : Optionally supplied endpoint
attributes.
Endpoint attributes may be specified and returned as part of fi_getinfo.
When provided as hints, requested values of struct fi_ep_attr should be
set.
On output, the actual endpoint attributes that can be provided will be
returned.
Output values will be greater than or equal to requested input values.
See fi_endpoint(3) for details.
.PP
\f[I]domain_attr - domain attributes\f[] : Optionally supplied domain
attributes.
Domain attributes may be specified and returned as part of fi_getinfo.
When provided as hints, requested values of struct fi_domain_attr should
be set.
On output, the actual domain attributes that can be provided will be
returned.
Output values will be greater than or equal to requested input values.
See fi_domain(3) for details.
.PP
\f[I]fabric_attr - fabric attributes\f[] : Optionally supplied fabric
attributes.
Fabric attributes may be specified and returned as part of fi_getinfo.
When provided as hints, requested values of struct fi_fabric_attr should
be set.
On output, the actual fabric attributes that can be provided will be
returned.
See fi_fabric(3) for details.
.SH CAPABILITIES
.PP
Interface capabilities are obtained by OR-ing the following flags
together.
If capabilities in the hint parameter are set to 0, the underlying
provider will return the set of capabilities which are supported.
Otherwise, providers will only return data matching the specified set of
capabilities.
Providers may indicate support for additional capabilities beyond those
requested when the use of expanded capabilities will not adversely
affect performance or expose the application to communication beyond
that which was requested.
Applications may use this feature to request a minimal set of
requirements, then check the returned capabilities to enable additional
optimizations.
.PP
\f[I]FI_MSG\f[] : Specifies that an endpoint should support sending and
receiving messages or datagrams.
Message capabilities imply support for send and/or receive queues.
Endpoints supporting this capability support operations defined by
struct fi_ops_msg.
.PP
The ep_cap may be used to specify or restrict the type of messaging
operations that are supported.
In the absence of any relevant flags, FI_MSG implies the ability to send
and receive messages.
Applications can use the FI_SEND and FI_RECV flags to optimize an
endpoint as send-only or receive-only.
.PP
\f[I]FI_RMA\f[] : Specifies that the endpoint should support RMA read
and write operations.
Endpoints supporting this capability support operations defined by
struct fi_rma_ops.
In the absence of any relevant flags, FI_RMA implies the ability to
initiate and be the target of remote memory reads and writes.
Applications can use the FI_READ, FI_WRITE, FI_REMOTE_READ, and
FI_REMOTE_WRITE flags to restrict the types of RMA operations supported
by an endpoint.
.PP
\f[I]FI_TAGGED\f[] : Specifies that the endpoint should handle tagged
message transfers.
tagged message transfers associate a user-specified key or tag with each
message that is used for matching purposes at the remote side.
Endpoints supporting this capability support operations defined by
struct fi_tagged_ops.
In the absence of any relevant flags, FI_TAGGED implies the ability to
send and receive tagged messages.
Applications can use the FI_SEND and FI_RECV flags to optimize an
endpoint as send-only or receive-only.
.PP
\f[I]FI_ATOMICS\f[] : Specifies that the endpoint supports some set of
atomic operations.
Endpoints supporting this capability support operations defined by
struct fi_atomic_ops.
In the absence of any relevant flags, FI_ATOMICS implies the ability to
initiate and be the target of remote atomic reads and writes.
Applications can use the FI_READ, FI_WRITE, FI_REMOTE_READ, and
FI_REMOTE_WRITE flags to restrict the types of atomic operations
supported by an endpoint.
.PP
\f[I]FI_MULTICAST\f[] : Indicates that the endpoint should support
multicast data transfers.
Endpoints supporting this capability support multicast operations
defined by struct fi_msg_ops, when a multicast address is specified as
the destination address.
In the absence of any relevant flags, FI_MULTICAST implies the ability
to send and receive messages.
Applications can use the FI_SEND and FI_RECV flags to optimize an
endpoint as send-only or receive-only.
.PP
\f[I]FI_DYNAMIC_MR\f[] : The provider supports applications registering
any range of addresses in their virtual address space, whether or not
those addresses are back by physical pages or have been allocated to the
app.
Providers that lack this capability require that registered memory
regions be backed by allocated memory pages.
.PP
\f[I]FI_NAMED_RX_CTX\f[] : Requests that endpoints which support
multiple receive contexts allow an initiator to target (or name) a
specific receive context as part of a data transfer operation.
.PP
\f[I]FI_BUFFERED_RECV\f[] : Requests that the communication endpoint
should attempt to queue inbound data that arrives before a receive
buffer has been posted.
In the absence of this flag, any messages that arrive before a receive
is posted are lost.
Applications may access endpoint options (getopt/setopt) to determine
the size of available buffered receive space.
.PP
\f[I]FI_INJECT\f[] : Indicates that the endpoint be able to support the
FI_INJECT flag on data transfer operations and the \[aq]inject\[aq] data
transfer calls.
The minimum supported size of an inject operation that an endpoint with
this capability must support is 8-bytes.
Applications may access endpoint options (getopt/setopt) to determine
injected transfer limits.
.PP
\f[I]FI_MULTI_RECV\f[] : Specifies that the endpoint must support the
FI_MULTI_RECV flag when posting receive buffers.
.PP
\f[I]FI_SOURCE\f[] : Requests that the endpoint return source addressing
data as part of its completion data.
This capability only applies to connectionless endpoints.
Note that returning source address information may require that the
provider perform address translation and/or look-up based on data
available in the underlying protocol in order to provide the requested
data, which may adversely affect performance.
.PP
\f[I]FI_READ\f[] : Indicates that the user requires an endpoint capable
of initiating reads against remote memory regions.
Remote reads include some RMA and atomic operations.
.PP
\f[I]FI_WRITE\f[] : Indicates that the user requires an endpoint capable
of initiating writes against remote memory regions.
Remote writes include some RMA and most atomic operations.
.PP
\f[I]FI_SEND\f[] : Indicates that the user requires an endpoint capable
of sending message data transfers.
Message transfers include base message operations as well as tagged
message functionality.
.PP
\f[I]FI_RECV\f[] : Indicates that the user requires an endpoint capable
of receiving message data transfers.
Message transfers include base message operations as well as tagged
message functionality.
.PP
\f[I]FI_REMOTE_READ\f[] : Indicates that the user requires an endpoint
capable of receiving read memory operations from remote endpoints.
Remote read operations include some RMA and atomic operations.
.PP
\f[I]FI_REMOTE_WRITE\f[] : Indicates that the user requires an endpoint
capable of receiving write memory operations from remote endpoints.
Remote write operations include some RMA operations and most atomic
operations.
.PP
\f[I]FI_REMOTE_CQ_DATA\f[] : Applications may include a small message
with a data transfer that is placed directly into a remote event queue
as part of a completion event.
This is referred to as remote CQ data (sometimes referred to as
immediate data).
The FI_REMOTE_CQ_DATA indicates that an endpoint must support the
FI_REMOTE_CQ_DATA flag on data transfer operations.
The minimum supported size of remote CQ data that an endpoint with this
capability must support is 4-bytes.
Applications may access endpoint options (getopt/setopt) to determine
remote CQ data limits.
.PP
\f[I]FI_REMOTE_SIGNAL\f[] : Indicates that the endpoint support the
FI_REMOTE_SIGNAL flag on data transfer operations.
Support requires marking outbound data transfers as signaled and
handling incoming transfers appropriately.
.PP
\f[I]FI_REMOTE_COMPLETE\f[] : Indicates that the endpoint support the
FI_REMOTE_COMPLETE flag on data transfer operations.
Support requires marking outbound data transfers as using remote
completions and responding to incoming transfers appropriately.
.PP
\f[I]FI_CANCEL\f[] : Indicates that the user desires the ability to
cancel outstanding data transfer operations.
If FI_CANCEL is not set, a provider may optimize code paths with the
assumption that fi_cancel will not be used by the application.
.PP
\f[I]FI_TRIGGER\f[] : Indicates that the endpoint should support
triggered operations.
Endpoints support this capability must meet the usage model as described
by fi_trigger.3.
.SH MODE
.PP
The operational mode bits are used to convey requirements that an
application must adhere to when using the fabric interfaces.
Modes specify optimal ways of accessing the reported endpoint or domain.
Applications that are designed to support a specific mode of operation
may see improved performance when that mode is desired by the provider.
It is recommended that providers support applications that disable any
provider preferred modes.
.PP
On input to fi_getinfo, applications set the mode bits that they
support.
On output, providers will clear mode bits that are not necessary to
achieve high-performance.
Mode bits that remain set indicate application requirements for using
the fabric interfaces created using the returned fi_info.
The set of modes are listed below.
.PP
\f[I]FI_CONTEXT\f[] : Specifies that the provider requires that
applications use struct fi_context as their per operation context
parameter.
This structure should be treated as opaque to the application.
For performance reasons, this structure must be allocated by the user,
but may be used by the fabric provider to track the operation.
Typically, users embed struct fi_context within their own context
structure.
The struct fi_context must remain valid until the corresponding
operation completes or is successfully canceled.
As such, fi_context should NOT be allocated on the stack.
Doing so is likely to result in stack corruption that will be difficult
to debug.
Users should not update or interpret the fields in this structure, or
reuse it until the original operation has completed.
The structure is specified in rdma/fabric.h.
.PP
\f[I]FI_LOCAL_MR\f[] : The provider is optimized around having
applications register memory for locally accessed data buffers.
Data buffers used in send and receive operations and as the source
buffer for RMA and atomic operations must be registered by the
application for access domains opened with this capability.
.PP
\f[I]FI_MSG_PREFIX\f[] : Message prefix mode indicates that an
application will provide buffer space in front of all message send and
receive buffers for use by the provider.
Typically, the provider uses this space to implement a protocol, with
the protocol headers being written into the prefix area.
The contents of the prefix space should be treated as opaque.
The use of FI_MSG_PREFIX may improve application performance over
certain providers by reducing the number of IO vectors referenced by
underlying hardware and eliminating provider buffer allocation.
.PP
FI_MSG_PREFIX only applies to send and receive operations, including
tagged sends and receives.
RMA and atomics do not require the application to provide prefix
buffers.
Prefix buffer space must be provided with all sends and receives,
regardless of the size of the transfer or other transfer options.
The ownership of prefix buffers is treated the same as the corresponding
message buffers, but the size of the prefix buffer is not counted toward
any message limits, including inject.
.PP
Applications that support prefix mode must supply buffer space before
their own message data.
The size of space that must be provided is specified by the
msg_prefix_size endpoint attribute.
Providers are required to define a msg_prefix_size that is a multiple of
8 bytes.
Additionally, applications may receive provider generated packets that
do not contain application data.
Such received messages will indicate a transfer size of 0 bytes.
.PP
\f[I]FI_PROV_MR_ATTR\f[] : The provider assigns one or more attributes
associated with a memory registration request.
The provider will set this mode if it returns the the memory
registration keys that applications must use, or if it requires that the
MR offset associated with a memory region be the same as the virtual
address of the memory.
.PP
Applications that support provider MR attributes will need to exchange
MR parameters with remote peers for RMA and atomic operations.
The exchanged data should include both the address of the memory region
as well as the MR key.
If this mode is disabled, then applications may select the MR key
associated with a registration request, and the resulting memory region
will start at a base address of 0.
Applications can request that providers select MR attributes by forcing
this bit set after fi_getinfo returns.
.SH ENDPOINT TYPES
.PP
\f[I]FI_EP_UNSPEC\f[] : The type of endpoint is not specified.
This is usually provided as input, with other attributes of the endpoint
or the provider selecting the type.
.PP
\f[I]FI_EP_MSG\f[] : Provides a reliable, connection-oriented data
transfer service with flow control that maintains message boundaries.
.PP
\f[I]FI_EP_DGRAM\f[] : Supports a connectionless, unreliable datagram
communication.
Message boundaries are maintained, but the maximum message size may be
limited to the fabric MTU.
Flow control is not guaranteed.
.PP
\f[I]FI_EP_RDM\f[] : Reliable datagram message.
Provides a reliable, unconnected data transfer service with flow control
that maintains message boundaries.
.SH ADDRESSING FORMATS
.PP
Multiple fabric interfaces take as input either a source or destination
address parameter.
This includes struct fi_info (src_addr and dest_addr), CM calls
(getname, getpeer, connect, join, and leave), and AV calls (insert,
lookup, and straddr).
The fi_info addr_format field indicates the expected address format for
these operations.
.PP
A provider may support one or more of the following addressing formats.
In some cases, a selected addressing format may need to be translated or
mapped into into an address which is native to the fabric.
See \f[C]fi_av\f[](3).
.PP
\f[I]FI_ADDR_UNSPEC\f[] : FI_ADDR_UNSPEC indicates that a provider
specific address format should be selected.
Provider specific addresses may be protocol specific or a vendor
proprietary format.
Applications that select FI_ADDR_UNSPEC should be prepared to be treat
returned addressing data as opaque.
FI_ADDR_UNSPEC targets apps which make use of an out of band address
exchange.
Applications which use FI_ADDR_UNSPEC may use fi_getname() to obtain a
provider specific address assigned to an allocated endpoint.
.PP
\f[I]FI_SOCKADDR\f[] : Address is of type sockaddr.
The specific socket address format will be determined at run time by
interfaces examining the sa_family field.
.PP
\f[I]FI_SOCKADDR_IN\f[] : Address is of type sockaddr_in (IPv4).
.PP
\f[I]FI_SOCKADDR_IN6\f[] : Address is of type sockaddr_in6 (IPv6).
.PP
\f[I]FI_SOCKADDR_IB\f[] : Address is of type sockaddr_ib (defined in
Linux kernel source
.PP
\f[I]FI_ADDR_PSMX\f[] : Address is an Intel proprietary format that is
used with their PSMX (extended performance scaled messaging) protocol.
.SH FLAGS
.PP
The operation of the fi_getinfo call may be controlled through the use
of input flags.
Valid flags include the following.
.PP
\f[I]FI_NUMERICHOST\f[] : Indicates that the node parameter is a numeric
string representation of a fabric address, such as a dotted decimal IP
address.
Use of this flag will suppress any lengthy name resolution protocol.
.PP
\f[I]FI_SOURCE\f[] : Indicates that the node and service parameters
specify the local source address to associate with an endpoint.
This flag is often used with passive endpoints.
.SH RETURN VALUE
.PP
fi_getinfo() returns 0 on success.
On error, fi_getinfo() returns a negative value corresponding to fabric
errno.
Fabric errno values are defined in \f[C]rdma/fi_errno.h\f[].
.PP
fi_dupinfo() duplicates a single fi_info structure and all the
substructures within it and returns a pointer to the new fi_info
structure.
This new fi_info structure must be freed via fi_freeinfo().
fi_dupinfo() returns NULL on error.
.SH ERRORS
.PP
\f[I]FI_EBADFLAGS\f[] : The specified endpoint or domain capability or
operation flags are invalid.
.PP
\f[I]FI_ENOMEM\f[] : Indicates that there was insufficient memory to
complete the operation.
.PP
\f[I]FI_ENODATA\f[] : Indicates that no providers could be found which
support the requested fabric information.
.PP
\f[I]FI_ENOSYS\f[] : No fabric providers were found.
.SH NOTES
.PP
If hints are provided, the operation will be controlled by the values
that are supplied in the various fields (see section on
\f[I]fi_info\f[]).
Applications that require specific communication interfaces, domains,
capabilities or other requirements, can specify them using fields in
\f[I]hints\f[].
Libfabric returns a linked list in \f[I]info\f[] that points to a list
of matching interfaces.
\f[I]info\f[] is set to NULL if there are no communication interfaces or
none match the input hints.
.PP
If node is provided, fi_getinfo will attempt to resolve the fabric
address to the given node.
If node is not provided, fi_getinfo will attempt to resolve the fabric
addressing information based on the provided hints.
The caller must call fi_freeinfo to release fi_info structures returned
by fi_getinfo.
.PP
If neither node, service or hints are provided, then fi_getinfo simply
returns the list all available communication interfaces.
.PP
Multiple threads may call \f[C]fi_getinfo\f[] "simultaneously, without
any requirement for serialization."
.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
\f[C]fi_open\f[](3), \f[C]fi_endpoint\f[](3), \f[C]fi_domain\f[](3)
.SH AUTHORS
OpenFabrics.
