.TH fi_poll 3 "2014-11-14" "Libfabric Programmer\[aq]s Manual" "\@VERSION\@"
.SH NAME
.PP
fi_poll - Polling and wait set operations
.PP
fi_poll_open / fi_close : Open/close a polling set
.PP
fi_poll_add / fi_poll_del : Add/remove an event queue or counter to/from
a poll set.
.PP
fi_poll : Poll for progress and events across multiple event queues.
.PP
fi_wait_open / fi_close : Open/close a wait set
.PP
fi_wait : Waits for one or more wait objects in a set to be signaled.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.IP
.nf
\f[C]
#include\ <rdma/fi_domain.h>

int\ fi_poll_open(struct\ fid_domain\ *domain,\ struct\ fi_poll_attr\ *attr,
\ \ \ \ struct\ fid_poll\ **pollset);

int\ fi_close(struct\ fid\ *pollset);

int\ fi_poll_add(struct\ fid_poll\ *pollset,\ struct\ fid\ *event_fid,
\ \ \ \ uint64_t\ flags);

int\ fi_poll_del(struct\ fid_poll\ *pollset,\ struct\ fid\ *event_fid,
\ \ \ \ uint64_t\ flags);

int\ fi_poll(struct\ fid_poll\ *pollset,\ void\ **context,\ int\ count);

int\ fi_wait_open(struct\ fid_domain\ *domain,\ struct\ fi_wait_attr\ *attr,
\ \ \ \ struct\ fid_wait\ **waitset);

int\ fi_close(struct\ fid\ *waitset);

int\ fi_control(struct\ fid\ *waitset,\ int\ command,\ void\ *arg);

int\ fi_wait(struct\ fid_wait\ *waitset,\ int\ timeout);
\f[]
.fi
.SH ARGUMENTS
.PP
\f[I]domain\f[] : Resource domain
.PP
\f[I]pollset\f[] : Event poll set
.PP
\f[I]waitset\f[] : Wait object set
.PP
\f[I]attr\f[] : Poll or wait set attributes
.PP
\f[I]context\f[] : On success, an array of user context values
associated with an event queue or counter.
.PP
\f[I]count\f[] : Number of entries in context array.
.PP
\f[I]timeout\f[] : Time to wait for a signal, in milliseconds.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.SS fi_poll_open
.PP
fi_poll_open creates a new polling set.
A poll set enables an optimized method for progressing asynchronous
operations across multiple event queues and counters and checking for
their completions.
.PP
A poll set is defined with the following attributes.
.IP
.nf
\f[C]
struct\ fi_poll_attr\ {
\ \ \ \ int\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ mask;\ \ \ \ \ \ /*\ valid\ attr\ fields\ */
\ \ \ \ uint64_t\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ flags;\ \ \ \ \ /*\ operation\ flags\ */
};
\f[]
.fi
.PP
\f[I]mask\f[] : The mask field is used for forward and backward API
compatibility.
It is used by the application to indicate which fields in the attribute
structure have been set.
For this version of the API, mask should be set to FI_POLL_ATTR_MASK_V1,
indicating that all specified fields have been initialized.
.PP
\f[I]flags\f[] : Flags that set the default operation of the poll set.
The use of this field is reserved and must be set to 0 by the caller.
.SS fi_close
.PP
The fi_close call releases all resources associated with a poll set.
The poll set must not be associated with any other resources prior to
being closed.
.SS fi_poll_add
.PP
Associates an event queue or counter with a poll set.
.SS fi_poll_del
.PP
Removes an event queue or counter from a poll set.
.SS fi_poll
.PP
Progresses all event queues and counters associated with a poll set and
checks for events.
If events has occurred, contexts associated with the event queues and/or
counters are returned.
The number of contexts is limited to the size of the context array,
indicated by the count parameter.
.SS fi_wait_open
.PP
fi_wait_open allocates a new wait set.
A wait set enables an optimized method of waiting for events across
multiple event queues and counters.
Where possible, a wait set uses a single underlying wait object that is
signaled when a specified condition occurs on an associated event queue
or counter.
.PP
The properties and behavior of a wait set are defined by struct
fi_wait_attr.
.IP
.nf
\f[C]
struct\ fi_wait_attr\ {
\ \ \ \ int\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ mask;\ \ \ \ \ \ /*\ valid\ attr\ fields\ */
\ \ \ \ enum\ fi_wait_obj\ \ \ \ \ wait_obj;\ \ /*\ requested\ wait\ object\ */
\ \ \ \ uint64_t\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ flags;\ \ \ \ \ /*\ operation\ flags\ */
};
\f[]
.fi
.PP
\f[I]mask\f[] : The mask field is used for forward and backward API
compatibility.
It is used by the application to indicate which fields in the attribute
structure have been set.
For this version of the API, mask should be set to FI_WAIT_ATTR_MASK_V1,
indicating that all specified fields have been initialized.
.PP
\f[I]wait_obj\f[] : Wait sets are associated with specific wait
object(s).
Wait objects allow applications to block until the wait object is
signaled, indicating that an event is available to be read.
Users may use fi_control to retrieve the underlying wait object(s)
associated with a wait set, in order to use it in other system calls.
The following values may be used to specify the type of wait object
associated with an wait set: FI_WAIT_UNSPEC, FI_WAIT_FD, and
FI_WAIT_MUT_COND.
.IP \[bu] 2
\f[I]FI_WAIT_UNSPEC\f[] : Specifies that the user will only wait on the
wait set using fabric interface calls, such as fi_wait.
In this case, the underlying provider may select the most appropriate or
highest performing wait object available, including custom wait
mechanisms.
Applications that select FI_WAIT_UNSPEC are not guaranteed to retrieve
the underlying wait object.
.IP \[bu] 2
\f[I]FI_WAIT_FD\f[] : Indicates that the wait set should use a file
descriptor as its wait mechanism.
A file descriptor wait object must be usable in select, poll, and epoll
routines.
However, a provider may signal an FD wait object by marking it as
readable, writable, or with an error.
.IP \[bu] 2
\f[I]FI_WAIT_MUT_COND\f[] : Specifies that the wait set should use a
pthread mutex and cond variable as a wait object.
.PP
\f[I]flags\f[] : Flags that set the default operation of the wait set.
The use of this field is reserved and must be set to 0 by the caller.
.SS fi_close
.PP
The fi_close call releases all resources associated with a wait set.
The wait set must not be bound to any other opened resources prior to
being closed.
.SS fi_control
.PP
The fi_control call is used to access provider or implementation
specific details of the wait set.
Access to the wait set should be serialized across all calls when
fi_control is invoked, as it may redirect the implementation of wait set
operations.
The following control commands are usable with a wait set.
.PP
\f[I]FI_GETWAIT (void **)\f[] : This command allows the user to retrieve
the low-level wait object(s) associated with the wait set.
The format of the wait-object is specified during wait set creation,
through the wait set attributes.
The fi_control arg parameter should be an address to a struct
fi_wait_obj_set.
.IP
.nf
\f[C]
struct\ fi_wait_obj_set\ {
\ \ \ \ size_t\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ len;\ \ \ \ \ \ /*\ size\ of\ obj\ array\ entries\ */
\ \ \ \ enum\ fi_wait_obj\ \ wait_obj;\ /*\ type\ of\ wait\ obj\ */
\ \ \ \ void\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ *obj;\ \ \ \ \ \ /*\ array\ of\ wait\ objects\ */
};
\f[]
.fi
.PP
On input, len should indicate the size in bytes referenced by the obj
field.
On output, the needed size will be returned.
The underlying wait objects will be returned in the obj array.
If insufficient space is provided, the results will be truncated.
The wait_obj field may be used to identify the format of the wait
objects.
.SS fi_wait
.PP
Waits on a wait set until one or more of its underlying wait objects is
signaled.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.PP
Returns 0 on success.
On error, a negative value corresponding to fabric errno is returned.
.PP
Fabric errno values are defined in \f[C]rdma/fi_errno.h\f[].
.PP
fi_poll : On success, if events are available, returns the number of
entries written to the context array.
.SH NOTES
.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
\f[C]fi_getinfo\f[](3), \f[C]fi_domain\f[](3), \f[C]fi_cntr\f[](3),
\f[C]fi_eq\f[](3)
.SH AUTHORS
OpenFabrics.
