.TH fi_tagged 3 "2014\-12\-02" "Libfabric Programmer\[aq]s Manual" "\@VERSION\@"
.SH NAME
.PP
fi_tagged - Tagged data transfer operations
.TP
.B fi_trecv / fi_trecvv / fi_trecvmsg
Post a buffer to receive an incoming message
.RS
.RE
.PP
fi_tsend / fi_tsendv / fi_tsendmsg
.PD 0
.P
.PD
fi_tinject / fi_tsenddata : Initiate an operation to send a message
.TP
.B fi_tsearch
Initiate a search operation for a buffered receive matching a given tag
.RS
.RE
.SH SYNOPSIS
.IP
.nf
\f[C]
#include\ <rdma/fi_tagged.h>

ssize_t\ fi_trecv(struct\ fid_ep\ *ep,\ void\ *buf,\ size_t\ len,\ void\ *desc,
\ \ \ \ fi_addr_t\ src_addr,\ uint64_t\ tag,\ uint64_t\ ignore,\ void\ *context);

ssize_t\ fi_trecvv(struct\ fid_ep\ *ep,\ const\ struct\ iovec\ *iov,\ void\ *desc,
\ \ \ \ size_t\ count,\ fi_addr_t\ src_addr,\ uint64_t\ tag,\ uint4_t\ ignore,
\ \ \ \ void\ *context);

ssize_t\ fi_trecvmsg(struct\ fid_ep\ *ep,\ const\ struct\ fi_msg_tagged\ *msg,
\ \ \ \ uint64_t\ flags);

ssize_t\ fi_tsend(struct\ fid_ep\ *ep,\ const\ void\ *buf,\ size_t\ len,
\ \ \ \ void\ *desc,\ fi_addr_t\ dest_addr,\ uint64_t\ tag,\ void\ *context);

ssize_t\ fi_tsendv(struct\ fid_ep\ *ep,\ const\ struct\ iovec\ *iov,
\ \ \ \ void\ *desc,\ size_t\ count,\ fi_addr_t\ dest_addr,\ uint64_t\ tag,
\ \ \ \ void\ *context);

ssize_t\ fi_tsendmsg(struct\ fid_ep\ *ep,\ const\ struct\ fi_msg_tagged\ *msg,
\ \ \ \ uint64_t\ flags);

ssize_t\ fi_tinject(struct\ fid_ep\ *ep,\ const\ void\ *buf,\ size_t\ len,
\ \ \ \ fi_addr_t\ dest_addr,\ uint64_t\ tag);

ssize_t\ fi_tsenddata(struct\ fid_ep\ *ep,\ const\ void\ *buf,\ size_t\ len,
\ \ \ \ void\ *desc,\ uint64_t\ data,\ fi_addr_t\ dest_addr,\ uint64_t\ tag,
\ \ \ \ void\ *context);

ssize_t\ fi_tsearch(struct\ fid_ep\ *ep,\ uint64_t\ *tag,\ uint64_t\ ignore,
\ \ \ \ uint64_t\ flags,\ void\ *src_addr,\ size_t\ *src_addrlen,
\ \ \ \ size_t\ *len,\ void\ *context);
\f[]
.fi
.SH ARGUMENTS
.PP
\f[I]fid\f[] : Fabric endpoint on which to initiate tagged communication
operation.
.PP
\f[I]buf\f[] : Data buffer to send or receive.
.PP
\f[I]len\f[] : Length of data buffer to send or receive.
.PP
\f[I]iov\f[] : Vectored data buffer.
.PP
\f[I]count\f[] : Count of vectored data entries.
.PP
\f[I]tag\f[] : Tag associated with the message.
.PP
\f[I]ignore\f[] : Mask of bits to ignore applied to the tag for receive
operations.
.PP
\f[I]desc\f[] : Memory descriptor associated with the data buffer
.PP
\f[I]data\f[] : Remote CQ data to transfer with the sent data.
.PP
\f[I]dest_addr\f[] : Destination address for connectionless transfers.
Ignored for connected endpoints.
.PP
\f[I]src_addr\f[] : Source address to receive from for connectionless
transfers.
Ignored for connected endpoints.
.PP
\f[I]msg\f[] : Message descriptor for send and receive operations.
.PP
\f[I]flags\f[] : Additional flags to apply for the send or receive
operation.
.PP
\f[I]context\f[] : User specified pointer to associate with the
operation.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
Tagged messages are data transfers which carry a key or tag with the
message buffer.
The tag is used at the receiving endpoint to match the incoming message
with a corresponding receive buffer.
Message tags match when the receive buffer tag is the same as the send
buffer tag with the ignored bits masked out.
This can be stated as:
.IP
.nf
\f[C]
send_tag\ &\ ~ignore\ ==\ recv_tag\ &\ ~ignore
\f[]
.fi
.PP
In general, message tags are checked against receive buffers in the
order in which messages have been posted to the endpoint.
See the ordering discussion below for more details.
.PP
The send functions -- fi_tsend, fi_tsendv, fi_tsendmsg, fi_tinject, and
fi_tsenddata -- are used to transmit a tagged message from one endpoint
to another endpoint.
The main difference between send functions are the number and type of
parameters that they accept as input.
Otherwise, they perform the same general function.
.PP
The receive functions -- fi_trecv, fi_trecvv, fi_recvmsg -- post a data
buffer to an endpoint to receive inbound tagged messages.
Similar to the send operations, receive operations operate
asynchronously.
Users should not touch the posted data buffer(s) until the receive
operation has completed.
Posted receive buffers are matched with inbound send messages based on
the tags associated with the send and receive buffers.
.PP
Completed message operations are reported to the user through one or
more event collectors associated with the endpoint.
Users provide context which are associated with each operation, and is
returned to the user as part of the event completion.
See fi_eq for completion event details.
.SS fi_tsend
.PP
The call fi_tsend transfers the data contained in the user-specified
data buffer to a remote endpoint, with message boundaries being
maintained.
The local endpoint must be connected to a remote endpoint or destination
before fi_tsend is called.
Unless the endpoint has been configured differently, the data buffer
passed into fi_tsend must not be touched by the application until the
fi_tsend call completes asynchronously.
.SS fi_tsendv
.PP
The fi_tsendv call adds support for a scatter-gather list to fi_tsend.
The fi_sendv transfers the set of data buffers referenced by the iov
parameter to a remote endpoint as a single message.
.SS fi_tsendmsg
.PP
The fi_tsendmsg call supports data transfers over both connected and
unconnected endpoints, with the ability to control the send operation
per call through the use of flags.
The fi_tsendmsg function takes a struct fi_msg_tagged as input.
.IP
.nf
\f[C]
struct\ fi_msg_tagged\ {
\ \ \ \ const\ struct\ iovec\ *msg_iov;\ /*\ scatter-gather\ array\ */
\ \ \ \ void\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ *desc;\ \ \ \ /*\ data\ descriptor\ */
\ \ \ \ size_t\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ iov_count;/*\ #\ elements\ in\ msg_iov\ *
\ \ \ \ const\ void\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ *addr;\ \ \ \ /*\ optional\ endpoint\ address\ */
\ \ \ \ uint64_t\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ tag;\ \ \ \ \ \ /*\ tag\ associated\ with\ message\ */
\ \ \ \ uint64_t\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ ignore;\ \ \ /*\ mask\ applied\ to\ tag\ for\ receives\ */
\ \ \ \ void\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ *context;\ /*\ user-defined\ context\ */
\ \ \ \ uint64_t\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ data;\ \ \ \ \ /*\ optional\ immediate\ data\ */
};
\f[]
.fi
.SS fi_tinject
.PP
The tagged inject call is an optimized version of fi_tsend.
The fi_tinject function behaves as if the FI_INJECT transfer flag were
set, and FI_COMPLETION were not.
That is, the data buffer is available for reuse immediately on returning
from from fi_tinject, and no completion event will be generated for this
send.
The completion event will be suppressed even if the endpoint has not
been configured with FI_COMPLETION.
See the flags discussion below for more details.
.SS fi_tsenddata
.PP
The tagged send data call is similar to fi_tsend, but allows for the
sending of remote CQ data (see FI_REMOTE_CQ_DATA flag) as part of the
transfer.
.SS fi_trecv
.PP
The fi_trecv call posts a data buffer to the receive queue of the
corresponding endpoint.
Posted receives are searched in the order in which they were posted in
order to match sends.
Message boundaries are maintained.
The order in which the receives complete is dependent on the endpoint
type and protocol.
.SS fi_trecvv
.PP
The fi_trecvv call adds support for a scatter-gather list to fi_trecv.
The fi_trecvv posts the set of data buffers referenced by the iov
parameter to a receive incoming data.
.SS fi_trecvmsg
.PP
The fi_trecvmsg call supports posting buffers over both connected and
unconnected endpoints, with the ability to control the receive operation
per call through the use of flags.
The fi_trecvmsg function takes a struct fi_msg_tagged as input.
.SS fi_tsearch
.PP
The function fi_tsearch determines if a message with the specified tag
with ignore mask from an optionally supplied source address has been
received and is buffered by the provider.
The fi_tsearch call is only available on endpoints with FI_BUFFERED_RECV
enabled.
The fi_tsearch operation may complete asynchronously or immediately,
depending on the underlying provider implementation.
.PP
By default, a single message may be matched by multiple search
operations.
The user can restrict a message to matching with a single fi_tsearch
call by using the FI_CLAIM flag to control the search.
When set, FI_CLAIM indicates that when a search successfully finds a
matching message, the message is claimed by caller.
Subsequent searches cannot find the same message, although they may
match other messages that have the same tag.
.SH FLAGS
.PP
The fi_trecvmsg and fi_tsendmsg calls allow the user to specify flags
which can change the default message handling of the endpoint.
Flags specified with fi_trecvmsg / fi_tsendmsg override most flags
previously configured with the endpoint, except where noted (see
fi_endpoint).
The following list of flags are usable with fi_trecvmsg and/or
fi_tsendmsg.
.PP
\f[I]FI_REMOTE_CQ_DATA\f[] : Applies to fi_tsendmsg and fi_tsenddata.
Indicates that remote CQ data is available and should be sent as part of
the request.
See fi_getinfo for additional details on FI_REMOTE_CQ_DATA.
.PP
\f[I]FI_COMPLETION\f[] : Indicates that a completion entry should be
generated for the specified operation.
The endpoint must be bound to an event queue with FI_COMPLETION that
corresponds to the specified operation, or this flag is ignored.
.PP
\f[I]FI_MORE\f[] : Indicates that the user has additional requests that
will immediately be posted after the current call returns.
Use of this flag may improve performance by enabling the provider to
optimize its access to the fabric hardware.
.PP
\f[I]FI_REMOTE_SIGNAL\f[] : Indicates that a completion event at the
target process should be generated for the given operation.
The remote endpoint must be configured with FI_REMOTE_SIGNAL, or this
flag will be ignored by the target.
.PP
\f[I]FI_INJECT\f[] : Applies to fi_tsendmsg.
Indicates that the outbound data buffer should be returned to user
immediately after the send call returns, even if the operation is
handled asynchronously.
This may require that the underlying provider implementation copy the
data into a local buffer and transfer out of that buffer.
.PP
\f[I]FI_REMOTE_COMPLETE\f[] : Applies to fi_tsendmsg.
Indicates that a completion should not be generated until the operation
has completed on the remote side.
.PP
The following flags may be used with fi_tsearch.
.PP
\f[I]FI_CLAIM\f[] : Indicates that when a search successfully finds a
matching message, the message is claimed by caller.
Subsequent searches cannot find the same message, although they may
match other messages that have the same tag.
.SH RETURN VALUE
.PP
The tagged send and receive calls return 0 on success.
On error, a negative value corresponding to fabric _errno _ is returned.
Fabric errno values are defined in \f[C]fi_errno.h\f[].
.PP
The fi_tsearch calls returns 0 if the search was successfully initiated
asynchronously.
In this case, the result of the search will be reported through the
event collector associated with the endpoint.
If the search completes immediately, fi_tsearch will return 1, with
information about the matching receive returned through the len, tag,
src_addr, and src_addrlen parameters.
.SH ERRORS
.PP
\f[I]-FI_ENOMSG\f[] : Returned by fi_tsearch on an immediate completion,
but no matching message was located.
.PP
\f[I]-FI_EAGAIN\f[] : Indicates that the underlying provider currently
lacks the resources needed to initiate the requested operation.
This may be the result of insufficient internal buffering, in the case
of FI_INJECT, or processing queues are full.
The operation may be retried after additional provider resources become
available, usually through the completion of currently outstanding
operations.
.PP
\f[I]-FI_EINVAL\f[] : Indicates that an invalid argument was supplied by
the user.
.PP
\f[I]-FI_EOTHER\f[] : Indicates that an unspecified error occurred.
.SH NOTES
.SS Any source
.PP
The function fi_trecv() may be used to receive a message from a specific
source address.
If the user wishes to receive a message from any source on an
unconnected fabric endpoint the function fi_recv() may be used, or
fi_trecv() may be used with the src_addr set to a wildcard address that
has been inserted into an address vector.
See fi_av.3 for more details.
.SS Ordering
.PP
The order in which tags are matched is only defined for a pair of
sending and receiving endpoints.
The ordering is defined by the underlying protocol.
If a specific protocol is not selected for an endpoint, the libfabric
implementation will choose a protocol that satisfies the following
requirement from the MPI-3.0 specification (page 41, lines 1-5):
.RS
.PP
If a sender sends two messages in succession to the same destination,
and both match the same receive, then this operation cannot receive the
second message if the first one is still pending.
If a receiver posts two receives in succession, and both match the same
message, then the second receive operation cannot be satisfied by this
message, if the first one is still pending.
.RE
.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
\f[C]fi_getinfo\f[](3), \f[C]fi_endpoint\f[](3), \f[C]fi_domain\f[](3),
\f[C]fi_eq\f[](3)
.SH AUTHORS
OpenFabrics.
