.TH fi_verbs 7 "2015\-04\-28" "Libfabric Programmer\[aq]s Manual" "Libfabric v1.0.0"
.SH NAME
.PP
The Verbs Fabric Provider
.SH OVERVIEW
.PP
The verbs provider enables applications using OFI to be run over any
verbs hardware (Infiniband, iWarp, etc).
It uses the Linux Verbs API for network transport and provides a
translation OFI calls to appropriate verbs API calls.
It uses librdmacm for communication management and libibverbs for other
control and data transfer operations.
.SH SUPPORTED FEATURES
.PP
The verbs provider supports a subset of OFI features.
.PP
\f[I]Endpoint types\f[] : Only FI_EP_MSG is supported.
.PP
\f[I]Endpoint capabilities\f[] : FI_MSG, FI_RMA, FI_ATOMIC.
.PP
\f[I]Modes\f[] : Verbs provider requires applications to support the
following modes: FI_LOCAL_MR for all applications.
FI_RX_CQ_DATA for applications that want to use RMA.
Applications must take responsibility of posting receives for any
incoming CQ data.
.PP
\f[I]Progress\f[] : Verbs provider supports FI_PROGRESS_AUTO:
Asynchronous operations make forward progress automatically.
.PP
\f[I]Operation flags\f[] : Verbs provider supports FI_INJECT,
FI_COMPLETION, FI_REMOTE_CQ_DATA.
.PP
\f[I]Msg Ordering\f[] : Verbs provider support the following messaging
ordering on the TX side: * Read after Read * Read after Write * Read
after Send * Write after Write * Write after Send * Send after Write *
Send after Send
.SH UNSUPPORTED FEATURES
.PP
\f[I]Control Interfaces\f[] : Counters and address vectors are not
supported.
.PP
\f[I]Data transfer interfaces\f[] : Tagged messaging and multi-receive
are not supported.
.PP
\f[I]Endpoint features\f[] : Scalable endpoints and shared contexts are
not supported.
fi_cancel, fi_tx/rx_size_left and fi_alias operations are not supported.
.PP
\f[I]Others\f[] : Other unsupported features include resource
management, polling.
.SH LIMITATIONS
.PP
\f[I]CQ\f[] : cq_readfrom operations are not supported.
.PP
\f[I]CM\f[] : fi_setname is not yet supported.
.PP
\f[I]EQ\f[] : fi_eq_write is not supported.
.PP
\f[I]Memory Regions\f[] : Adding regions via s/g list is not supported.
Generic fi_mr_regattr is not supported.
No support for binding memory regions to a counter.
.PP
\f[I]Wait objects\f[] : Only FI_WAIT_FD wait object is supported.
Wait sets are not supported.
.PP
\f[I]Others\f[] : No direct inject calls yet.
.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
\f[C]fabric\f[](7), \f[C]fi_provider\f[](7),
.SH AUTHORS
OpenFabrics.
