.TH "pmix_init" "3" "2015\-10\-25" "PMIx Programmer\[aq]s Manual" "\@VERSION\@"
.SH NAME
.PP
PMIx_Init \- Initialize the PMIx Client
.SH SYNOPSIS
.IP
.nf
\f[C]
#include\ <pmix.h>

pmix_status_t\ PMIx_Init(pmix_proc_t\ *proc);
\f[]
.fi
.SH ARGUMENTS
.PP
\f[I]proc\f[] : Pointer to a pmix_proc_t object in which the
client\[aq]s namespace and rank are to be returned.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
Initialize the PMIx client, returning the process identifier assigned to
this client\[aq]s application in the provided pmix_proc_t struct.
Passing a parameter of \f[I]NULL\f[] for this parameter is allowed if
the user wishes solely to initialize the PMIx system and does not
require return of the identifier at that time.
.PP
When called, the PMIx client will check for the required connection
information of the local PMIx server and will establish the connection.
If the information is not found, or the server connection fails, then an
appropriate error constant will be returned.
.PP
If successful, the function will return PMIX_SUCCESS and will fill the
provided structure with the server\-assigned namespace and rank of the
process within the application.
.PP
Note that the PMIx client library is referenced counted, and so multiple
calls to PMIx_Init are allowed.
Thus, one way to obtain the namespace and rank of the process is to
simply call PMIx_Init with a non\-NULL parameter.
.SH RETURN VALUE
.PP
Returns PMIX_SUCCESS on success.
On error, a negative value corresponding to a PMIx errno is returned.
.SH ERRORS
.PP
PMIx errno values are defined in \f[C]pmix_common.h\f[].
.SH NOTES
.SH SEE ALSO
.SH AUTHORS
PMIx.
