.TH "pmix_constants" "7" "2015\-10\-25" "PMIx Programmer\[aq]s Manual" "\@VERSION\@"
.SH NAME
.PP
PMIx Constants
.SH SYNOPSIS
.IP
.nf
\f[C]
#include\ <pmix_common.h>
\f[]
.fi
.SH OVERVIEW
.PP
PMIx relies on the following types of constants:
.PP
\f[I]Maximum Sizes\f[] : In order to minimize malloc performance
penalties, PMIx utilizes constant\-sized arrays wherever possible.
These constants provide the user with the maximum size of the various
array types.
.PP
\f[I]Attributes\f[] : .
.PP
\f[I]Errors\f[] : PMIx uses negative error constants, with 0 indicating
"success".
.SH MAXIMUM SIZES
.PP
The .
.PP
\f[I]PMIX_MAX_NSLEN\f[] : The maximum length of a namespace.
Note that any declaration of an array to hold a key string must include
one extra space for the terminating \f[I]NULL\f[].
.PP
\f[I]PMIX_MAX_KEYLEN\f[] : Maximum length of the key string used in
structures such as the \f[I]pmix\f[]info_t_.
Note that any declaration of an array to hold a key string must include
one extra space for the terminating \f[I]NULL\f[].
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.PP
Define a set of "standard" PMIx attributes that can be queried using the
PMIx_Get function.
Implementations (and users) are free to extend as desired \- thus,
functions calling PMIx_Get must be capable of handling the "not found"
condition.
Note that these are attributes of the system and the job as opposed to
values the application (or underlying programming library) might choose
to expose \- i.e., they are values provided by the resource manager as
opposed to the application.
Thus, these keys are RESERVED for use by PMIx, and users should avoid
defining any attribute starting with the keyword \f[I]PMIX\f[].
.PP
A list of the current PMIx attributes, and the type of their associated
data value, is provided here.
.PP
\f[I]PMIX_ATTR_UNDEF (NULL)\f[] : Used to initialize an attribute field,
indicating that the attribute has not yet been assigned.
.PP
\f[I]PMIX_USERID (uint32_t)\f[] : .
.PP
\f[I]PMIX_GRPID (uint32_t)\f[] : An access domain represents a single
logical connection into a fabric.
It may map to a single physical or virtual NIC or a port.
An access domain defines the boundary across which fabric resources may
be associated.
Each access domain belongs to a single fabric domain.
.PP
\f[I]PMIX_CPUSET (char*)\f[] : .
.SH ERROR CONSTANTS
.PP
\&.
.PP
\f[I]PMIX_SUCCESS\f[] : Indicates that the operation was successful.
.PP
\f[I]PMIX_ERROR\f[] : A general error code \- an error occurred, but no
specific reason can be provided.
.PP
\f[I]fi_rma \- Remote Memory Access\f[] : RMA transfers are one\-sided
operations that read or write data directly to a remote memory region.
Other than defining the appropriate memory region, RMA operations do not
require interaction at the target side for the data transfer to
complete.
.PP
\f[I]fi_atomic \- Atomic\f[] : Atomic operations can perform one of
several operations on a remote memory region.
Atomic operations include well\-known functionality, such as atomic\-add
and compare\-and\-swap, plus several other pre\-defined calls.
Unlike other data transfer interfaces, atomic operations are aware of
the data formatting at the target memory region.
.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
\f[C]pmix\f[](7)
.SH AUTHORS
PMIx.
