.\"Copyright 2006, Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" Copyright (c) 1996 Thinking Machines Corporation
.TH MPI_File_get_atomicity 3OpenMPI "September 2006" "Open MPI 1.2" " "
.SH NAME
\fBMPI_File_get_atomicity\fP \- Returns current consistency semantics for data-access operations.

.SH SYNTAX
.ft R
.nf
C Syntax
    #include <mpi.h>
    int MPI_File_get_atomicity(MPI_File \fIfh\fP, int \fI*flag\fP)

Fortran Syntax
    INCLUDE 'mpif.h'
    MPI_FILE_GET_ATOMICITY(\fIFH\fP,\fI FLAG\fP,\fI IERROR\fP)
	INTEGER \FIFH, IERROR\FP 
	LOGICAL \FIFLAG\FP

.SH C++ Syntax
.nf
#include <mpi.h>
bool MPI::File::Get_atomicity() const

.SH INPUT PARAMETER
.ft R
.TP 1i
fh
File handle (handle).

.SH OUTPUT PARAMETER
.ft R
.TP 1i
flag
true if atomic mode is enabled, false if nonatomic mode is enabled (boolean).
.TP 1i
IERROR
Fortran only: Error status (integer). 

.SH DESCRIPTION
.ft R
MPI_File_get_atomicity returns the current consistency semantics for
data access operations on the set of file handles created by one
collective MPI_File_open. If \fIflag\fP is 
.I true,
atomic mode is currently enabled; if 
.I flag 
is 
.I false,
nonatomic mode is currently enabled. 

.SH ERRORS
Almost all MPI routines return an error value; C routines as the value of the function and Fortran routines in the last argument. C++ functions do not return errors. If the default error handler is set to MPI::ERRORS_THROW_EXCEPTIONS, then on error the C++ exception mechanism will be used to throw an MPI:Exception object.
.sp
Before the error value is returned, the current MPI error handler is
called. For MPI I/O function errors, the default error handler is set to MPI_ERRORS_RETURN. The error handler may be changed with MPI_File_set_errhandler; the predefined error handler MPI_ERRORS_ARE_FATAL may be used to make I/O errors fatal. Note that MPI does not guarantee that an MPI program can continue past an error.  

' @(#)MPI_File_get_atomicity.3 1.8 97/08/26
' @(#)MPI_File_get_atomicity.3 1.31 06/03/09
