# Name

MPI_Finalize  - Terminates MPI execution environment.

# Syntax

## C Syntax

```c
#include <mpi.h>

int MPI_Finalize()
```


## Fortran Syntax

```fortran
USE MPI
! or the older form: INCLUDE 'mpif.h'

MPI_FINALIZE(IERROR)
    INTEGER	IERROR
```


## Fortran 2008 Syntax

```fortran
USE mpi_f08

MPI_Finalize(ierror)
    INTEGER, OPTIONAL, INTENT(OUT) :: ierror
```


# Output Parameter

* IERROR : Fortran only: Error status (integer).

# Description

This routine cleans up all MPI states. Once this routine is called, no
MPI routine (not even MPI_Init) may be called, except for
MPI_Get_version, MPI_Initialized, and MPI_Finalized. Unless there has
been a call to MPI_Abort, you must ensure that all pending
communications involving a process are complete before the process calls
MPI_Finalize. If the call returns, each process may either continue
local computations or exit without participating in further
communication with other processes. At the moment when the last process
calls MPI_Finalize, all pending sends must be matched by a receive, and
all pending receives must be matched by a send.

MPI_Finalize is collective over all connected processes. If no processes
were spawned, accepted, or connected, then this means it is collective
over MPI_COMM_WORLD. Otherwise, it is collective over the union of all
processes that have been and continue to be connected.

# Notes

All processes must call this routine before exiting. All processes will
still exist but may not make any further MPI calls. MPI_Finalize
guarantees that all local actions required by communications the user
has completed will, in fact, occur before it returns. However,
MPI_Finalize guarantees nothing about pending communications that have
not been completed; completion is ensured only by MPI_Wait, MPI_Test,
or MPI_Request_free combined with some other verification of completion.

For example, a successful return from a blocking communication operation
or from MPI_Wait or MPI_Test means that the communication is completed
by the user and the buffer can be reused, but does not guarantee that
the local process has no more work to do. Similarly, a successful return
from MPI_Request_free with a request handle generated by an MPI_Isend
nullifies the handle but does not guarantee that the operation has
completed. The MPI_Isend is complete only when a matching receive has
completed.

If you would like to cause actions to happen when a process finishes,
attach an attribute to MPI_COMM_SELF with a callback function. Then,
when MPI_Finalize is called, it will first execute the equivalent of an
MPI_Comm_free on MPI_COMM_SELF. This will cause the delete callback
function to be executed on all keys associated with MPI_COMM_SELF in an
arbitrary order. If no key has been attached to MPI_COMM_SELF, then no
callback is invoked. This freeing of MPI_COMM_SELF happens before any
other parts of MPI are affected. Calling MPI_Finalized will thus return
"false" in any of these callback functions. Once you have done this
with MPI_COMM_SELF, the results of MPI_Finalize are not specified.

# Errors

Almost all MPI routines return an error value; C routines as the value
of the function and Fortran routines in the last argument.

Before the error value is returned, the current MPI error handler is
called. By default, this error handler aborts the MPI job, except for
I/O function errors. The error handler may be changed with
MPI_Comm_set_errhandler; the predefined error handler MPI_ERRORS_RETURN
may be used to cause error values to be returned. Note that MPI does not
guarantee that an MPI program can continue past an error.

# See Also

[MPI_Init(3)](MPI_Init.html)
[MPI_Init_thread(3)](MPI_Init_thread.html)
[MPI_Initialized(3)](MPI_Initialized.html)
[MPI_Finalized(3)](MPI_Finalized.html)
