.\" -*- nroff -*-
.\" Copyright 2013 Los Alamos National Security, LLC. All rights reserved.
.\" Copyright 2006-2008 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" Copyright (c) 1996 Thinking Machines Corporation
.\" Copyright (c) 2010 Cisco Systems, Inc.  All rights reserved.
.\" $COPYRIGHT$
.TH MPI_T_enum_get_info 3 "#OMPI_DATE#" "#PACKAGE_VERSION#" "#PACKAGE_NAME#"
.
.SH NAME
\fBMPI_T_enum_get_info\fP \- Query information about an enumerator
.
.SH SYNTAX
.ft R
.
.SH C Syntax
.nf
#include <mpi.h>
int MPI_T_enum_get_info(MPI_T_enum \fIenumtype\fP, int *\fInum\fP, char *\fIname\fP, int *\fIname_len\fP)

.fi
.SH INPUT PARAMETERS
.ft R
.TP 1i
enumtype
Enumerator to be queried.

.SH INPUT/OUTPUT PARAMETERS
.ft R
.TP 1i
name_len
Length of the string and/or buffer for name.

.SH OUTPUT PARAMETERS
.ft R
.TP li
num
number of discrete values represented by this enumeration.
.TP 1i
name
Buffer to return the string containing the name of the
category.

.SH DESCRIPTION
.ft R
MPI_T_enum_get_info can be used to query information about an enumerator. The function returns the
number of discrete values represented by this enumerator in the \fInum\fP parameter.

.SH NOTES
.ft R
This MPI tool interface function returns the name of the enumeration as a string. This function
takes two argument for the string: \fIname\fP which specifies a buffer where the name of the
should be stored, and \fIname_len\fP which must initially specify the size of the buffer pointed
to by \fIname\fP. This function will copy at most \fIname_len\fP - 1 characters of the name
and sets \fIname_len\fP to the number of characters returned + 1. If \fIname_len\fP is NULL
or the value specified in \fIname_len\fP is 0 the \fIname\fP buffer is ignored and the name of
the enumeration is not returned.

.SH ERRORS
.ft R
MPI_T_enum_get_info() will fail if:
.TP 1i
[MPI_T_ERR_NOT_INITIALIZED]
The MPI Tools interface not initialized
.TP 1i
[MPI_T_ERR_INVALID_INDEX]
The enumeration is invalid or has been deleted
