.\"Copyright 2006, Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" Copyright (c) 1996 Thinking Machines Corporation
.TH MPI_Group_free 3OpenMPI "September 2006" "Open MPI 1.2" " "
.SH NAME
\fBMPI_Group_free \fP \- Frees a group.

.SH SYNTAX
.ft R
.SH C Syntax
.nf
#include <mpi.h>
int MPI_Group_free(MPI_Group *\fIgroup\fP)

.SH Fortran Syntax
.nf
INCLUDE 'mpif.h'
MPI_GROUP_FREE(\fIGROUP, IERROR\fP)
	INTEGER	\fIGROUP, IERROR\fP 

.SH C++ Syntax
.nf
#include <mpi.h>
void Group::Free()

.SH INPUT/OUTPUT PARAMETER
.TP 1i
group
Group (handle).

.SH OUTPUT PARAMETER
.ft R
.TP 1i
IERROR
Fortran only: Error status (integer). 

.SH DESCRIPTION
.ft R
This operation marks a group object for deallocation. The handle group is set to MPI_GROUP_NULL by the call. Any ongoing operation using this group will complete normally. 

.SH NOTE
.ft R
On return, group is set to MPI_GROUP_NULL.

.SH ERRORS
Almost all MPI routines return an error value; C routines as the value of the function and Fortran routines in the last argument. C++ functions do not return errors. If the default error handler is set to MPI::ERRORS_THROW_EXCEPTIONS, then on error the C++ exception mechanism will be used to throw an MPI:Exception object.
.sp
Before the error value is returned, the current MPI error handler is
called. By default, this error handler aborts the MPI job, except for I/O function errors. The error handler may be changed with MPI_Comm_set_errhandler; the predefined error handler MPI_ERRORS_RETURN may be used to cause error values to be returned. Note that MPI does not guarantee that an MPI program can continue past an error.  

' @(#)MPI_Group_free.3 1.20 06/03/09   
