.\" -*- nroff -*-
.\" Copyright 2013-2014 Los Alamos National Security, LLC. All rights reserved.
.\" Copyright 2010 Cisco Systems, Inc.  All rights reserved.
.\" Copyright 2006-2008 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" Copyright (c) 1996 Thinking Machines Corporation
.\" $COPYRIGHT$
.TH MPI_Fetch_and_op 3 "#OMPI_DATE#" "#PACKAGE_VERSION#" "#PACKAGE_NAME#"
.SH NAME
\fBMPI_Fetch_and_op\fP \- Combines the contents of the origin buffer with that of a target buffer and returns the target buffer value.

.SH SYNTAX
.ft R
.SH C Syntax
.nf
#include <mpi.h>
int MPI_Fetch_and_op(const void *\fIorigin_addr\fP, void *\fresult_addr\fP,
	MPI_Datatype \fdatatype\fP, int \fItarget_rank\fP, MPI_Aint \fItarget_disp\fP,
	MPI_Op \fIop\fP, MPI_Win \fIwin\fP)

.fi
.SH Fortran Syntax (see FORTRAN 77 NOTES)
.nf
INCLUDE 'mpif.h'
MPI_FETCH_AND_OP(\fIORIGIN_ADDR, RESULT_ADDR, DATATYPE, TARGET_RANK,
                 TARGET_DISP, OP, WIN, IERROR\fP)
	<type> \fIORIGIN_ADDR\fP, \fIRESULT_ADDR\fP(*)
	INTEGER(KIND=MPI_ADDRESS_KIND) \fITARGET_DISP\fP
	INTEGER \fIDATATYPE, TARGET_RANK, OP, WIN, IERROR \fP

.fi
.SH INPUT PARAMETERS
.ft R
.TP 1i
origin_addr
Initial address of buffer (choice).
.ft R
.TP
result_addr
Initial address of result buffer (choice).
.ft R
.TP
datatype
Data type of the entry in origin, result, and target buffers (handle).
.ft R
.TP 1i
target_rank
Rank of target (nonnegative integer).
.ft R
.TP 1i
target_disp
Displacement from start of window to beginning of target buffer (nonnegative integer).
.ft R
.TP 1i
op
Reduce operation (handle).
.ft R
.TP 1i
win
Window object (handle).

.SH OUTPUT PARAMETER
.ft R
.TP 1i
IERROR
Fortran only: Error status (integer).

.SH DESCRIPTION
.ft R
Accumulate one element of type \fIdatatype\fP from the origin buffer (\fIorigin_addr\fP) to the buffer at offset \fItarget_disp\fP, in the target window specified by \fItarget_rank\fP and \fIwin\fP, using the operation \fIop\fP and return in the result buffer \fIresult_addr\fP the contents of the target buffer before the accumulation.
.sp
The origin and result buffers (\fIorigin_addr\fP and \fIresult_addr\fP) must be disjoint. Any of the predefined operations for \fBMPI_Rreduce\fP, as well as MPI_NO_OP or MPI_REPLACE, can be specified as \fIop\fP; user-defined functions cannot be used. The \fIdatatype\fP argument must be a predefined datatype. The operation is executed atomically.
.sp
A new predefined operation, MPI_REPLACE, is defined. It corresponds to the associative function f(a, b) =b; that is, the current value in the target memory is replaced by the value supplied by the origin.
.sp
A new predefined operation, MPI_NO_OP, is defined. It corresponds to the assiciative function f(a, b) = a; that is the current value in the target memory is returned in the result buffer at the origin and no operation is performed on the target buffer.

.SH FORTRAN 77 NOTES
.ft R
The MPI standard prescribes portable Fortran syntax for
the \fITARGET_DISP\fP argument only for Fortran 90.  FORTRAN 77
users may use the non-portable syntax
.sp
.nf
     INTEGER*MPI_ADDRESS_KIND \fITARGET_DISP\fP
.fi
.sp
where MPI_ADDRESS_KIND is a constant defined in mpif.h
and gives the length of the declared integer in bytes.

.SH NOTES
It is the user's responsibility to guarantee that, when
using the accumulate functions, the target displacement argument is such
that accesses to the window are properly aligned according to the data
type arguments in the call to the MPI_Fetch_and_op function.

.SH ERRORS
Almost all MPI routines return an error value; C routines as the value of the function and Fortran routines in the last argument.
.sp
Before the error value is returned, the current MPI error handler is
called. By default, this error handler aborts the MPI job, except for I/O function errors. The error handler
may be changed with \fBMPI_Comm_set_errhandler\fP; the predefined error handler MPI_ERRORS_RETURN may be used to cause error values to be returned. Note that MPI does not guarantee that an MPI program can continue past an error.

.SH SEE ALSO
.ft R
.sp
MPI_Get_accumulate
.br
MPI_Reduce
