.\"Copyright 2006, Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" Copyright (c) 1996 Thinking Machines Corporation
.TH MPI_Info_create 3OpenMPI "September 2006" "Open MPI 1.2" " "
.SH NAME
\fBMPI_Info_create\fP \- Creates a new info object.

.SH SYNTAX
.ft R
.SH C Syntax
.nf
#include <mpi.h>
int MPI_Info_create(MPI_Info \fI*info\fP)

.SH Fortran Syntax
.nf
INCLUDE 'mpif.h'
MPI_INFO_CREATE(\fIINFO, IERROR\fP)
	INTEGER	\fIINFO, IERROR\fP 

.SH C++ Syntax
.nf
#include <mpi.h>
static MPI::Info MPI::Info::Create()

.SH OUTPUT PARAMETERS
.ft R
.TP 1i
info
Info object created (handle).
.ft R
.TP 1i
IERROR
Fortran only: Error status (integer). 

.SH DESCRIPTION
.ft R
MPI_Info_create creates a new info object. The newly created object contains no key/value pairs. 

.SH ERRORS
Almost all MPI routines return an error value; C routines as the value of the function and Fortran routines in the last argument. C++ functions do not return errors. If the default error handler is set to MPI::ERRORS_THROW_EXCEPTIONS, then on error the C++ exception mechanism will be used to throw an MPI:Exception object.
.sp
Before the error value is returned, the current MPI error handler is
called. By default, this error handler aborts the MPI job, except for I/O function errors. The error handler may be changed with MPI_Comm_set_errhandler; the predefined error handler MPI_ERRORS_RETURN may be used to cause error values to be returned. Note that MPI does not guarantee that an MPI program can continue past an error.  

.SH SEE ALSO
.ft r
MPI_Info_delete
.br
MPI_Info_dup
.br
MPI_Info_free
.br
MPI_Info_get
.br
MPI_Info_set
.br

' @(#)MPI_Info_create.3 1.19 06/03/09
