. -*- nroff -*-
.\" Copyright 2013 Los Alamos National Security, LLC. All rights reserved.
.\" Copyright 2006-2008 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" Copyright (c) 1996 Thinking Machines Corporation
.\" Copyright (c) 2010 Cisco Systems, Inc.  All rights reserved.
.TH MPI_T_pvar_get_info 3 "#OMPI_DATE#" "#PACKAGE_VERSION#" "#PACKAGE_NAME#"
.
.SH NAME
\fBMPI_T_pvar_get_info\fP \- Query information from a performance variable
.
.SH SYNTAX
.ft R
.
.SH C Syntax
.nf
#include <mpi.h>
int MPI_T_pvar_get_info(int \fIpvar_index\fP, char *\fIname\fP, int *\fIname_len\fP,
                        int *\fIverbosity\fP, int *\fIvar_class\fP, MPI_Datatype *\fIdatatype\fP, MPI_T_enum *\fIenumtype\fP,
                        char *\fIdesc\fP, int *\fIdesc_len\fP, int *\fIbind\fP, int *\fIreadonly\fP, int *\fIcontinuous\fP,
                        int *\fIatomic\fP)

.fi
.SH INPUT PARAMETERS
.ft R
.TP 1i
pvar_index
Index of the performance variable to be queried.

.SH INPUT/OUTPUT PARAMETERS
.ft R
.TP 1i
name_len
Length of the string and/or buffer for name.
.TP 1i
desc_len
Length of the string and/or buffer for desc.

.SH OUTPUT PARAMETERS
.ft R
.TP 1i
name
Buffer to return the string containing the name of the
performance variable.
.TP 1i
verbosity
Verbosity level of this variable.
.TP 1i
var_class
Class of performance variable.
.TP 1i
datatype
MPI datatype of the information stored in the performance variable.
.TP 1i
enumtype
Optional descriptor for enumeration information.
.TP 1i
desc
Buffer to return the string containing the description of the performance variable.
.TP 1i
bind
Type of MPI object to which this variable must be bound.
.TP 1i
readonly
Flag indicating whether the variable can be written/reset.
.TP 1i
continuous
Flag indicating whether the variable can be started and stopped or is continuously active.
.TP 1i
atomic
Flag indicating whether the variable can be atomically read and reset.
.
.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.ft R
MPI_T_pvar_get_info can be used to query information from a performance variable. The function returns
the verbosity, class, datatype, enumeration type, and binding of the queried control variable in the arguments
\fIverbosity\fP, \fIvar_class\fP, \fIdatatype\fP, \fIenumtype\fP, and \fIbind\fP respectively. Flags indicating
whether the variable is read-only, continuous, or atomic are returns in \fIreadonly\fP, \fIcontinuous\fP, and
\fIatomic\fP accordingly. See MPI-3 ยง 14.3.7 for more information. See the man page for MPI_T_cvar_get_info
for information on variable verbosity.

.SH VARIABLE CLASS
.ft R
Performance variables are categorized into classes which describe their initial value, valid types, and
behavior. The class returned in the \fIvar_class\fP parameter may be one of the following:
.TP 2
MPI_T_PVAR_CLASS_STATE
Variable represents a set of discrete states that may be described by an enumerator. Variables of this class
must be represented by an MPI_INT. The starting value is the current state of the variable. 
.TP 2
MPI_T_PVAR_CLASS_LEVEL
Variable represents the current utilization level of a resource. Variables of this class must be represented
by an MPI_UNSIGNED, MPI_UNSIGNED_LONG, MPI_UNSIGNED_LONG_LONG, or MPI_DOUBLE. The starting value is the
current utilization level of the resource.
.TP 2
MPI_T_PVAR_CLASS_SIZE
Variable represents the fixed size of a resource. Variables of this class are represented by an MPI_UNSIGNED,
MPI_UNSIGNED_LONG, MPI_UNSIGNED_LONG_LONG, or MPI_DOUBLE. The starting value is the current size of the resource.
.TP 2
MPI_T_PVAR_CLASS_PERCENTAGE
Variable represents the current precentage utilization level of a resource. Variables of this class are
represented by an MPI_DOUBLE. The starting value is the current percentage utilization of the resource.
.TP 2
MPI_T_PVAR_CLASS_HIGHWATERMARK
Variable represents the high watermark of the utilization of a resource. Variables of this class are
represented by an MPI_UNSIGNED, MPI_UNSIGNED_LONG, MPI_UNSIGNED_LONG_LONG, or MPI_DOUBLE. The starting value
is the current utilization of the resource.
.TP 2
MPI_T_PVAR_CLASS_HIGHWATERMARK
Variable represents the low watermark of the utilization of a resource. Variables of this class are
represented by an MPI_UNSIGNED, MPI_UNSIGNED_LONG, MPI_UNSIGNED_LONG_LONG, or MPI_DOUBLE. The starting value
is the current utilization of the resource.
.TP 2
MPI_T_PVAR_CLASS_COUNTER
Variable represents a count of the number of occurrences of a specific event. Variables of this class are
represented by an MPI_UNSIGNED, MPI_UNSIGNED_LONG, or MPI_UNSIGNED_LONG_LONG. The starting value is 0.
.TP 2
MPI_T_PVAR_CLASS_COUNTER
Variable represents an aggregated value that represents a sum of arguments processed during a specific event.
Variables of this class are represented by an MPI_UNSIGNED, MPI_UNSIGNED_LONG, MPI_UNSIGNED_LONG_LONG,
or MPI_DOUBLE. The starting value is 0.
.TP 2
MPI_T_PVAR_CLASS_TIMER
Variable represents the aggregated time spent by the MPI implementation while processing an event, type of
event, or section of code. Variables of this class are represented by an MPI_UNSIGNED, MPI_UNSIGNED_LONG,
MPI_UNSIGNED_LONG_LONG, or MPI_DOUBLE. If the variable is represented by an MPI_DOUBLE the units will be
the same as those used by MPI_Wtime(). The starting value is 0.
.TP 2
MPI_T_PVAR_CLASS_GENERIC
Variable does not fit into any other class. Can by represented by an type supported by the MPI tool
information interface (see DATATYPE). Starting value is variable specific.

For more information see MPI-3 \[char 167] 14.3.7.

.SH DATATYPE
.ft R
The datatype returned by MPI_T_pvar_get_info is restricted to one of the following datatypes: MPI_INT,
MPI_UNSIGNED, MPI_UNSIGNED_LONG, MPI_UNSIGNED_LONG_LONG, MPI_COUNT, MPI_CHAR, and MPI_DOUBLE. For more
information on datatypes in the MPI Tool information interface see MPI-3 \[char167] 14.3.5.

.SH BINDING
.ft R
Performance variables may be bound to an MPI object. The binding returned in the \fIbind\fP parameter may be
one of the following:
.TP 1i
MPI_T_BIND_NO_OBJECT
No object
.TP 1i
MPI_T_BIND_MPI_COMM
MPI communicator
.TP 1i
MPI_T_BIND_MPI_DATATYPE
MPI datatype
.TP 1i
MPI_T_BIND_MPI_ERRHANDLER
MPI error handler
.TP 1i
MPI_T_BIND_MPI_FILE
MPI file handle
.TP 1i
MPI_T_BIND_MPI_GROUP
MPI group
.TP 1i
MPI_T_BIND_MPI_OP
MPI reduction operator
.TP 1i
MPI_T_BIND_MPI_REQUEST
MPI request
.TP 1i
MPI_T_BIND_MPI_WIN
MPI window for one-sided communication
.TP 1i
MPI_T_BIND_MPI_MESSAGE
MPI message object
.TP 1i
MPI_T_BIND_MPI_INFO
MPI info object

For more information see MPI-3 \[char167] 14.3.2.

.SH NOTES
.ft R
This MPI tool interface function returns two strings. This function takes two argument for each string:
a buffer to store the string, and a length which must initially specify the size of the buffer. If the
length passed is n then this function will copy at most n - 1 characters of the string into the
corresponding buffer and set the length to the number of characters copied - 1. If the length argument
is NULL or the value specified in the length is 0 the corresponding string buffer is ignored and the
string is not returned. For more information see MPI-3 \[char167] 14.3.3.

.SH ERRORS
.ft R
MPI_T_pvar_get_info() will fail if:
.TP 1i
[MPI_T_ERR_NOT_INITIALIZED]
The MPI Tools interface not initialized
.TP 1i
[MPI_T_ERR_INVALID_INDEX]
The performance variable index is invalid
.
.SH SEE ALSO
.ft R
.nf
MPI_T_cvar_get_info
