. -*- nroff -*-
.\" Copyright 2013 Los Alamos National Security, LLC. All rights reserved.
.\" Copyright 2006-2008 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" Copyright (c) 1996 Thinking Machines Corporation
.\" Copyright (c) 2010 Cisco Systems, Inc.  All rights reserved.
.TH MPI_T_category_get_info 3 "#OMPI_DATE#" "#PACKAGE_VERSION#" "#PACKAGE_NAME#"
.
.SH NAME
\fBMPI_T_category_get_info\fP \- Query information from a category
.
.SH SYNTAX
.ft R
.
.SH C Syntax
.nf
#include <mpi.h>
int MPI_T_category_get_info(int \fIcat_index\fP, char *\fIname\fP, int *\fIname_len\fP,
char *\fIdesc\fP, int *\fIdesc_len\fP, int *\fInum_cvars\fP, int *\fInum_pvars\fP,
int *\fInum_categories\fP)

.fi
.SH INPUT PARAMETERS
.ft R
.TP 1i
cat_index
Index of the category to be queried.

.SH INPUT/OUTPUT PARAMETERS
.ft R
.TP 1i
name_len
Length of the string and/or buffer for name.
.TP 1i
desc_len
Length of the string and/or buffer for desc.

.SH OUTPUT PARAMETERS
.ft R
.TP 1i
name
Buffer to return the string containing the name of the
category.
.TP 1i
desc
Buffer to return the string containing the description
of the category.
.TP 1i
num_cvars
Number of control variables in the category.
.TP 1i
num_pvars
Number of performance variables in the category.
.TP 1i
num_categories
Number of categories contained in the category.

.SH DESCRIPTION
.ft R
MPI_T_category_get_info can be used to query information from a category. The function returns the
number of control variables, performance variables, and sub-categories in the queried category in
the arguments \fInum_cvars\fP, \fInum_pvars\fP, and \fInum_categories\fP, respectively.

.SH NOTES
.ft R
This MPI tool interface function returns two strings. This function takes two argument for each string:
a buffer to store the string, and a length which must initially specify the size of the buffer. If the
length passed is n then this function will copy at most n - 1 characters of the string into the
corresponding buffer and set the length to the number of characters copied - 1. If the length argument
is NULL or the value specified in the length is 0 the corresponding string buffer is ignored and the
string is not returned.

.SH ERRORS
.ft R
MPI_T_category_get_info() will fail if:
.TP 1i
[MPI_T_ERR_NOT_INITIALIZED]
The MPI Tools interface not initialized
.TP 1i
[MPI_T_ERR_INVALID_INDEX]
The category index is invalid
