.\" -*- nroff -*-
.\" Copyright 2013 Los Alamos National Security, LLC. All rights reserved.
.\" Copyright 2006-2008 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" Copyright (c) 1996 Thinking Machines Corporation
.\" Copyright (c) 2010 Cisco Systems, Inc.  All rights reserved.
.\" $COPYRIGHT$
.TH MPI_T_pvar_readreset 3 "#OMPI_DATE#" "#PACKAGE_VERSION#" "#PACKAGE_NAME#"
.
.SH NAME
\fBMPI_T_pvar_readreset\fP \- Atomically read and reset the value of a performance variable
.
.SH SYNTAX
.ft R
.
.SH C Syntax
.nf
#include <mpi.h>
int MPI_T_pvar_readreset(MPI_T_pvar_session \fIsession\fP, MPI_T_pvar_handle \fIhandle\fP, const void *\fIbuf\fP)

.fi
.SH INPUT PARAMETERS
.ft R
.TP 1i
session
Performance experiment session.
.TP 1i
handle
Performance variable handle.
.TP 1i
buf
Initial address of storage location for variable value.

.SH DESCRIPTION
.ft R
MPI_T_pvar_readreset atomically queries and resets the value of a performance variable
bound to the handle specified by \fIhandle\fP in the session specified by \fIsession\fP.
The result is stored in the buffer pointed to by \fIbuf\fP. This function can only be
used with performance variables that are atomic and not readonly. The caller must ensure
that the buffer pointed to by \fIbuf\fP is large enough to hold the entire value of the
performance variable.

.SH ERRORS
.ft R
MPI_T_pvar_readreset() will fail if:
.TP 1i
[MPI_T_ERR_NOT_INITIALIZED]
The MPI Tools interface not initialized
.TP 1i
[MPI_T_ERR_INVALID_HANDLE]
The handle is invalid or not associated with the session
.TP 1i
[MPI_T_ERR_INVALID_SESSION]
Session argument is not a valid session
.TP 1i
[MPI_T_ERR_PVAR_NO_ATOMIC]
Variable cannot be read and written atomically
.TP 1i
[MPI_T_ERR_PVAR_NO_WRITE]
Variable cannot be reset

.SH SEE ALSO
.ft R
.nf
MPI_T_pvar_handle_alloc
MPI_T_pvar_get_info
MPI_T_pvar_session_create
MPI_T_pvar_read
MPI_T_pvar_reset

