.\" -*- nroff -*-
.\" Copyright 2013 Los Alamos National Security, LLC. All rights reserved.
.\" Copyright 2006-2008 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" Copyright (c) 1996 Thinking Machines Corporation
.\" Copyright (c) 2020      Research Organization for Information Science
.\"                         and Technology (RIST).  All rights reserved.
.\" $COPYRIGHT$
.TH MPI_Status_f082f 3 "#OMPI_DATE#" "#PACKAGE_VERSION#" "#PACKAGE_NAME#"
.SH NAME
\fBMPI_Status_f082f, MPI_Status_f2f08 \fP \- Translates a Fortran status into a Fortran 2008 status, or vice versa.

.SH SYNTAX
.ft R
.SH C Syntax
.nf
#include <mpi.h>
int MPI_Status_f082c(const MPI_F08_status \fI*f08_status\fP, MPI_Status \fI*c_status\fP)
int MPI_Status_c2f08(const MPI_Status \fI*c_status\fP, MPI_F08_status \fI*f08_status\fP)

.fi
.SH Fortran Syntax
.nf
USE MPI
MPI_STATUS_F082F(\fF08_STATUS, F_STATUS, IERROR)
	TYPE(MPI_STATUS), INTENT(IN) :: \fIF08_STATUS\fP
	INTEGER	\fISTATUS_MPI_STATUS_SIZE), IERROR\fP

MPI_STATUS_F2F08(\fF_STATUS, F08_STATUS, IERROR)
	INTEGER	\fISTATUS_MPI_STATUS_SIZE), IERROR\fP
	TYPE(MPI_STATUS), INTENT(OUT) :: \fIF08_STATUS\fP

.fi
.SH Fortran 2008 Syntax
.nf
USE mpi_f08
MPI_Status_f082f(\fIf08_status\fP, \fIf_status\fP, \fIierror\fP)
	TYPE(MPI_Status), INTENT(IN) :: \fIf08_status\fP
	INTEGER	\fISTATUS(MPI_STATUS_SIZE)\fP
        INTEGER, OPTIONAL, INTENT(OUT) :: \fIierror\fP

MPI_Status_f2f08(\fIf_status\fP, \fIf08_status\fP, \fIierror\fP)
	INTEGER	\fISTATUS(MPI_STATUS_SIZE)\fP
	TYPE(MPI_Status), INTENT(OUT) :: \fIf08_status\fP

.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.ft R
These two procedures are provided to convert from a Fortran 2008 status (which is a derived datatype made of integers) to a Fortran status (which is an array of integers), and vice versa. The conversion occurs on all the information in \fIstatus\fP, including that which is hidden. That is, no status information is lost in the conversion.
These subroutines are not provided with the old \fIinclude 'mpif.h'\fP Fortran bindings.
.sp
When using MPI_Status_f082f, if \fIf08_status\fP is a valid Fortran status, but not the Fortran value of MPI_F08_STATUS_IGNORE (in C), MPI_STATUS_IGNORE (in Fortran) or MPI_F08_STATUSES_IGNORE (in C) or MPI_STATUSES_IGNORE (in Fortran), then MPI_Status_f082f returns in \fIf_status\fP a valid array with the same content. If \fIf08_status\fP is the C value of MPI_F08_STATUS_IGNORE or MPI_F08_STATUSES_IGNORE or the Fortran value of MPI_STATUS_IGNORE or MPI_STATUSES_IGNORE, or if \fIf08_status\fP is not a valid Fortran status, then the call is erroneous.
.sp
When using MPI_Status_f2f08, the opposite conversion is applied. If \fIf_status\fP is MPI_STATUS_IGNORE or MPI_STATUSES_IGNORE, or if \fIf_status\fP is not a valid Fortran status, then the call is erroneo$us.
.sp
The Fortran status has the same source, tag and error code values as the Fortran 2008 status, and returns the same answers when queried for count, elements, and cancellation. The conversion function may be called with a Fortran status argument that has an undefined error field, in which case the value of the error field in the Fortran status argument is undefined.
.sp
