.\" -*- nroff -*-
.\" Copyright 2013 Los Alamos National Security, LLC. All rights reserved.
.\" Copyright 2006-2008 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" Copyright (c) 1996 Thinking Machines Corporation
.\" Copyright (c) 2010 Cisco Systems, Inc.  All rights reserved.
.\" $COPYRIGHT$
.TH MPI_T_cvar_write 3 "#OMPI_DATE#" "#PACKAGE_VERSION#" "#PACKAGE_NAME#"
.
.SH NAME
\fBMPI_T_cvar_write\fP \- Write the value of a bound control variable
.
.SH SYNTAX
.ft R
.
.SH C Syntax
.nf
#include <mpi.h>
int MPI_T_cvar_write(MPI_T_cvar_handle \fIhandle\fP, const void *\fIbuf\fP)

.fi
.SH INPUT PARAMETERS
.ft R
.TP 1i
handle
Handle of the control variable to be written.
.TP 1i
buf
Initial address of storage location for variable value.

.SH DESCRIPTION
.ft R
MPI_T_cvar_write sets the value the control variable identified by the handle
specified in \fIhandle\fP from the buffer provided in \fIbuf\fP. The caller must
ensure that the buffer specified in \fIbuf\fP is large enough to hold the
entire value of the control variable. If the variable has global scope, any
write call must be issued on all connected MPI processes. For more
information see MPI-3 \[char167] 14.3.6.

.SH ERRORS
.ft R
MPI_T_cvar_write() will fail if:
.TP 1i
[MPI_T_ERR_NOT_INITIALIZED]
The MPI Tools interface not initialized
.TP 1i
[MPI_T_ERR_INVALID_HANDLE]
The handle is invalid
.TP 1i
[MPI_T_ERR_CVAR_SET_NOT_NOW]
Variable cannot be set at this moment
.TP 1i
[MPI_T_ERR_CVAR_SET_NEVER]
Variable cannot be set until end of execution

.SH SEE ALSO
.ft R
.nf
MPI_T_cvar_handle_alloc
MPI_T_cvar_get_info
