. -*- nroff -*-
.\" Copyright 2013 Los Alamos National Security, LLC. All rights reserved.
.\" Copyright 2006-2008 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" Copyright (c) 1996 Thinking Machines Corporation
.\" Copyright (c) 2010 Cisco Systems, Inc.  All rights reserved.
.TH MPI_T_pvar_write 3 "#OMPI_DATE#" "#PACKAGE_VERSION#" "#PACKAGE_NAME#"
.
.SH NAME
\fBMPI_T_pvar_write\fP \- Write the value of a control variable
.
.SH SYNTAX
.ft R
.
.SH C Syntax
.nf
#include <mpi.h>
int MPI_T_pvar_write(MPI_T_pvar_session \fIsession\fP, MPI_T_pvar_handle \fIhandle\fP, const void *\fIbuf\fP)

.fi
.SH INPUT PARAMETERS
.ft R
.TP 1i
session
Performance experiment session.
.TP 1i
handle
Performance variable handle.
.TP 1i
buf
Initial address of storage location for variable value.

.SH DESCRIPTION
.ft R
MPI_T_pvar_write attempts to set the value of the performance variable identified by
the handle specified in \fIhandle\fP in the session specified in \fPsession\fI. The
value to be written is specified in \fIbuf\fP. The caller must ensure that the buffer
specified in \fIbuf\fP is large enough to hold the entire value of the performance
variable.

.SH ERRORS
.ft R
MPI_T_pvar_write() will fail if:
.TP 1i
[MPI_T_ERR_NOT_INITIALIZED]
The MPI Tools interface not initialized
.TP 1i
[MPI_T_ERR_INVALID_HANDLE]
The handle is invalid or not associated with the session
.TP 1i
[MPI_T_ERR_INVALID_SESSION]
Session argument is not a valid session
.TP 1i
[MPI_T_ERR_PVAR_NO_WRITE]
Variable cannot be written

.SH SEE ALSO
.ft R
.nf
MPI_T_pvar_handle_alloc
MPI_T_pvar_get_info
MPI_T_pvar_session_create
