.\" -*- nroff -*-
.\" Copyright 2013 Los Alamos National Security, LLC. All rights reserved.
.\" Copyright 2006-2008 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" Copyright (c) 1996 Thinking Machines Corporation
.\" Copyright (c) 2010 Cisco Systems, Inc.  All rights reserved.
.\" $COPYRIGHT$
.TH MPI_T_enum_get_item 3 "#OMPI_DATE#" "#PACKAGE_VERSION#" "#PACKAGE_NAME#"
.
.SH NAME
\fBMPI_T_enum_get_item\fP \- Query information about an enumerator
.
.SH SYNTAX
.ft R
.
.SH C Syntax
.nf
#include <mpi.h>
int MPI_T_enum_get_item(MPI_T_enum \fIenumtype\fP, int \fIindex\fP, int *\fIvalue\fP, char *\fIname\fP,
                        int *\fIname_len\fP)

.fi
.SH INPUT PARAMETERS
.ft R
.TP 1i
enumtype
Enumeration to be queried.
.TP 1i
index
Number of the value to be queried in this enumeration.

.SH INPUT/OUTPUT PARAMETERS
.ft R
.TP 1i
name_len
Length of the string and/or buffer for name.

.SH OUTPUT PARAMETERS
.ft R
.TP li
value
Variable value.
.TP 1i
name
Buffer to return the string containing the name of the
category.

.SH DESCRIPTION
.ft R
MPI_T_enum_get_item can be used to query information about an item in an enumerator. This function
returns the enumeration value in the \fIvalue\fP parameter.

.SH NOTES
.ft R
This MPI tool interface function returns the name of the item as a string. This function takes two
arguments for the string: a buffer to store the string, and a length which must initially specify the
size of the buffer. If the length passed is n then this function will copy at most n - 1 characters
of the string into the buffer and sets the length to the number of characters copied - 1. If the length
argument is NULL or the value specified in the length is 0 the string buffer is ignored and the
string is not returned. For more information see MPI-3 \[char167] 14.3.3.

.SH ERRORS
.ft R
MPI_T_enum_get_item() will fail if:
.TP 1i
[MPI_T_ERR_NOT_INITIALIZED]
The MPI Tools interface not initialized
.TP 1i
[MPI_T_ERR_INVALID_INDEX]
The enumeration is invalid or has been deleted
