.\" -*- nroff -*-
.\" Copyright (c) 2015      Research Organization for Information Science
.\"                         and Technology (RIST). All rights reserved.
.\" $COPYRIGHT$
.TH MPI_Win_create_dynamic 3 "#OMPI_DATE#" "#PACKAGE_VERSION#" "#PACKAGE_NAME#"
.SH NAME
\fBMPI_Win_create_dynamic\fP \- One-sided MPI call that returns a window object for RMA operations.

.SH SYNTAX
.ft R
.SH C Syntax
.nf
#include <mpi.h>
MPI_Win_create_dynamic(MPI_Info \fIinfo\fP, MPI_Comm \fIcomm\fP, MPI_Win *\fIwin\fP)

.fi
.SH Fortran Syntax
.nf
USE MPI
! or the older form: INCLUDE 'mpif.h'
MPI_WIN_CREATE_DYNAMIC(\fIINFO, COMM, WIN, IERROR\fP)
	INTEGER \fIINFO, COMM, WIN, IERROR\fP

.fi
.SH Fortran 2008 Syntax
.nf
USE mpi_f08
MPI_Win_create_dynamic(\fIinfo\fP, \fIcomm\fP, \fIwin\fP, \fIierror\fP)
	TYPE(MPI_Info), INTENT(IN) :: \fIinfo\fP
	TYPE(MPI_Comm), INTENT(IN) :: \fIcomm\fP
	TYPE(MPI_Win), INTENT(OUT) :: \fIwin\fP
	INTEGER, OPTIONAL, INTENT(OUT) :: \fIierror\fP

.fi
.SH INPUT PARAMETERS
.ft R
.TP 1i
info
Info argument (handle).
.TP 1i
comm
Communicator (handle).

.SH OUTPUT PARAMETERS
.ft R
.TP 1i
win
Window object returned by the call (handle).
.TP 1i
IERROR
Fortran only: Error status (integer).

.SH DESCRIPTION
.ft R
MPI_Win_create_dynamic is a one-sided MPI communication collective call executed by all processes in the group of \fIcomm\fP. It returns a window object without memory attached that can be used by these processes to perform RMA operations.
.sp
A window created with \fBMPI_Win_create_dynamic\fP requires the \fItarget_disp\fP argument for all RMA communication functions to be the actual address at the target.

.sp
The following info keys are supported:
.ft R
.TP 1i
no_locks
If set to \fItrue\fP, then the implementation may assume that the local
window is never locked (by a call to MPI_Win_lock or
MPI_Win_lock_all). Setting this value if only active synchronization
may allow the implementation to enable certain optimizations.
.sp
.TP 1i
accumulate_ordering
By default, accumulate operations from one initiator to one target on
the same window memory location are strictly ordered. If the info key
accumulate_ordering is set to \fInone\fP, no ordering of accumulate
operations guaranteed. They key can also be a comma-separated list of
required orderings consisting of \fIrar\fP, \fIwar\fP, \fIraw\fP, and \fIwaw\fP for
read-after-read, write-after-read, read-after-write, and
write-after-write, respectively. Looser ordering constraints are
likely to result in improved performance.
.sp
.TP 1i
accumulate_ops
If set to \fIsame_op\fP, the implementation will assume that all concurrent
accumulate calls to the same target address will use the same
operation. If set to \fIsame_op_no_op\fP, then the implementation will
assume that all concurrent accumulate calls to the same target address
will use the same operation or \fBMPI_NO_OP\fP. The default is \fIsame_op_no_op\fP.
.sp

.SH NOTES
Since dynamically attaching memory to a window is a local operation, one has to communicate the actual address at the target using \fBMPI_Get_address\fP and some communication.
.sp
Dynamic memory does not have any \fIdisp_unit\fP associated and requires correct offset calculations with proper type handling.
.sp

.SH ERRORS
Almost all MPI routines return an error value; C routines as the value of the function and Fortran routines in the last argument.
.sp
Before the error value is returned, the current MPI error handler is
called. By default, this error handler aborts the MPI job, except for I/O function errors. The error handler may be changed with MPI_Comm_set_errhandler; the predefined error handler MPI_ERRORS_RETURN may be used to cause error values to be returned. Note that MPI does not guarantee that an MPI program can continue past an error.


.SH SEE ALSO
MPI_Win_attach
MPI_Win_detach
MPI_Get_address
.br


