.\" -*- nroff -*-
.\" Copyright 2010 Cisco Systems, Inc.  All rights reserved.
.\" Copyright 2006-2008 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" Copyright (c) 1996 Thinking Machines
.\" $COPYRIGHT$
.TH MPI_Comm_get_info 3 "#OMPI_DATE#" "#PACKAGE_VERSION#" "#PACKAGE_NAME#"
.SH NAME
\fBMPI_Comm_get_info\fP \- Retrieves active communicator info hints
.
.SH SYNTAX
.ft R
.SH C Syntax
.nf
#include <mpi.h>
int MPI_Comm_get_info(MPI_Comm \fIcomm\fP, MPI_Info \fI*info_used\fP)
.
.fi
.SH Fortran Syntax
.nf
INCLUDE 'mpif.h'
MPI_COMM_GET_INFO(\fICOMM, INFO_USED, IERROR\fP)
	INTEGER	\fICOMM, INFO_USED, IERROR \fP
.
.fi
.SH INPUT PARAMETERS
.ft R
.TP 1i
comm
Communicator from which to receive active info hints
.
.SH OUTPUT PARAMETERS
.ft R
.TP 1i
info_used
New info object returned with all active hints on this communicator.
.TP 1i
IERROR
Fortran only: Error status (integer). 
.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.ft R
MPI_Comm_get_info returns a new info object containing the hints of
the communicator associated with 
.IR comm . 
The current setting of all hints actually used by the system related
to this communicator is returned in 
.IR info_used . 
If no such hints exist, a handle to a newly created info object is
returned that contains no key/value pair. The user is responsible for
freeing info_used via MPI_Info_free.
.
.SH ERRORS
Almost all MPI routines return an error value; C routines as the value
of the function and Fortran routines in the last argument.
.sp
Before the error value is returned, the current MPI error handler is
called. By default, this error handler aborts the MPI job, except for
I/O function errors. The error handler may be changed with
MPI_Comm_set_errhandler; the predefined error handler
MPI_ERRORS_RETURN may be used to cause error values to be
returned. Note that MPI does not guarantee that an MPI program can
continue past an error.
.
.SH SEE ALSO
MPI_Comm_get_info,
MPI_Info_free
