.\" -*- nroff -*-
.\" Copyright 2013 Los Alamos National Security, LLC. All rights reserved.
.\" Copyright 2006-2008 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" Copyright (c) 1996 Thinking Machines Corporation
.\" Copyright (c) 2010 Cisco Systems, Inc.  All rights reserved.
.\" $COPYRIGHT$
.TH MPI_T_init_thread 3 "#OMPI_DATE#" "#PACKAGE_VERSION#" "#PACKAGE_NAME#"
.
.SH NAME
\fBMPI_T_init_thread\fP \- Initializes the MPI Tool imformation interface
.
.SH SYNTAX
.ft R
.
.SH C Syntax
.nf
#include <mpi.h>
int MPI_T_init_thread(int \fIrequired\fP, int *\fIprovided\fP)

.fi
.SH INPUT PARAMETERS
.ft R
.TP 1i
required
Desired level of thread support (integer).
.
.
.SH OUTPUT PARAMETERS
.ft R
.TP 1i
provided
Available level of thread support (integer).
.
.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.ft R
MPI_T_init_thread() initializes the MPI tool information interface. Calls to MPI tool functions
are allowed at any point in execution (including before MPI_Init() and after MPI_Finalize()) as
long as MPI_T_init_thread() has been called at least once and the number of calls to
MPI_T_init_thread() is greater than the number of calls to MPI_T_finalize(). If at any point in
execution the number of calls to MPI_T_finalize() equals the number of calls to
MPI_T_init_thread() the MPI tool interface will no longer be available until another call to
MPI_T_init_thread().

.sp
MPI_T_init_thread, like MPI_Init_thread, has a provision to request a
certain level of thread support in \fIrequired\fP:
.TP 2.4i
MPI_THREAD_SINGLE
Only one thread will execute.
.TP 2.4i
MPI_THREAD_FUNNELED
If the process is multithreaded, only the thread that called
MPI_Init_thread will make MPI calls.
.TP 2.4i
MPI_THREAD_SERIALIZED
If the process is multithreaded, only one thread will make MPI library
calls at one time.
.TP 2.4i
MPI_THREAD_MULTIPLE
If the process is multithreaded, multiple threads may call MPI at once
with no restrictions.
.
.PP
The level of thread support available to the program is set in
\fIprovided\fP. In Open MPI, the value is dependent on how the library was
configured and built. Note that there is no guarantee that
\fIprovided\fP will be greater than or equal to \fIrequired\fP.
.
.SH NOTES
.ft R
It is the caller's responsibility to check the value of \fIprovided\fP,
as it may be less than what was requested in \fIrequired\fP.

.SH ERRORS
.ft R
MPI_T_init_thread() will fail if:
.TP 1i
[MPI_T_ERR_MEMORY]
Out of memory
.TP 1i
[MPI_T_ERR_CANNOT_INIT]
Interface not in the state to be initialized

.SH SEE ALSO
.ft R
.nf
MPI_Init_thread
MPI_T_finalize

