.\" -*- nroff -*-
.\" Copyright (c) 2015      Research Organization for Information Science
.\"                         and Technology (RIST). All rights reserved.
.\" $COPYRIGHT$
.TH MPI_Win_set_info 3 "#OMPI_DATE#" "#PACKAGE_VERSION#" "#PACKAGE_NAME#"
.SH NAME
\fBMPI_Win_set_info\fP \- Set window info hints
.
.SH SYNTAX
.ft R
.SH C Syntax
.nf
#include <mpi.h>
int MPI_Win_set_info(MPI_Win \fIwin\fP, MPI_Info \fIinfo\fP)
.
.fi
.SH Fortran Syntax
.nf
USE MPI
! or the older form: INCLUDE 'mpif.h'
MPI_WIN_SET_INFO(\fIWIN, INFO, IERROR\fP)
	INTEGER	\fIWIN, INFO, IERROR \fP
.
.fi
.SH Fortran 2008 Syntax
.nf
USE mpi_f08
MPI_Win_set_info(\fIwin\fP, \fIinfo\fP, \fIierror\fP)
	TYPE(MPI_Win), INTENT(IN) :: \fIwin\fP
	TYPE(MPI_Info), INTENT(IN) :: \fIinfo\fP
	INTEGER, OPTIONAL, INTENT(OUT) :: \fIierror\fP

.fi
.SH INPUT PARAMETERS
.ft R
.TP 1i
win
Window on which to set info hints
.TP 1i
info
Info object containing hints to be set on
.I win
.
.SH OUTPUT PARAMETERS
.TP 1i
IERROR
Fortran only: Error status (integer).
.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.ft R
MPI_WIN_SET_INFO sets new values for the hints of the window
associated with
.IR win.
MPI_WIN_SET_INFO is a collective routine. The info object may be
different on each process, but any info entries that an implementation
requires to be the same on all processes must appear with the same
value in each process's
.I info
object.
.
.SH ERRORS
Almost all MPI routines return an error value; C routines as the value
of the function and Fortran routines in the last argument.
.sp
Before the error value is returned, the current MPI error handler is
called. By default, this error handler aborts the MPI job, except for
I/O function errors. The error handler may be changed with
MPI_Comm_set_errhandler; the predefined error handler
MPI_ERRORS_RETURN may be used to cause error values to be
returned. Note that MPI does not guarantee that an MPI program can
continue past an error.
.
.SH SEE ALSO
MPI_Win_get_info,
MPI_Info_create,
MPI_Info_set,
MPI_Info_free
