.\"Copyright 2007, Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" Copyright (c) 1996 Thinking Machines Corporation
.TH MPI_Unpublish_name 3OpenMPI "March 2007" "Open MPI 1.2" " "

.SH NAME
.nf
\fBMPI_Unpublish_name\fP \- Unpublishes a service name

.SH SYNTAX
.ft R

.SH C Syntax
.nf
#include <mpi.h>
int MPI_Unpublish_name(char *\fIservice_name\fP, MPI_Info \fIinfo\fP,
	char *\fIport_name\fP)

.SH Fortran Syntax
.nf
INCLUDE 'mpif.h'
MPI_UNPUBLISH_NAME(\fISERVICE_NAME, INFO, PORT_NAME, IERROR\fP)
	CHARACTER*(*)	\fISERVICE_NAME, PORT_NAME\fP
	INTEGER		\fIINFO, IERROR\fP

.SH C++ Syntax
.nf
#include <mpi.h>
void MPI::Unpublish_name(const char* \fIservice_name\fP, const MPI::Info& \fIinfo\fP,
	char* \fIport_name\fP)

.SH INPUT PARAMETERS
.ft R
.TP 1.4i
service_name
A service name (string).
.TP 1.4i
info
Options to the name service functions (handle). No options currently supported.
.ft R
.TP 1.4i
port_name
A port name (string).

.SH OUTPUT PARAMETER
.TP 1.4i
IERROR
Fortran only: Error status (integer).

.SH DESCRIPTION
.ft R
This routine removes the pair (\fIservice_name, port_name\fP) so that
applications may no longer retrieve \fIport_name\fP by calling
MPI_Lookup_name. It is an error to unpublish a \fIservice_name\fP
that was not published via MPI_Publish_name. Both the \fIservice_name\fP
and \fIport_name\fP arguments to MPI_Unpublish_name must be identical
to the arguments to the previous call to MPI_Publish_name.
.sp
The \fIinfo\fP parameter should be MPI_INFO_NULL, as this routine does
not parse any MPI Info arguments.

.SH ERRORS
.ft R
Almost all MPI routines return an error value; C routines as
the value of the function and Fortran routines in the last argument. C++
functions do not return errors. If the default error handler is set to
MPI::ERRORS_THROW_EXCEPTIONS, then on error the C++ exception mechanism
will be used to throw an MPI:Exception object.
.sp
Before the error value is returned, the current MPI error handler is
called. By default, this error handler aborts the MPI job, except for
I/O function errors. The error handler may be changed with
MPI_Comm_set_errhandler; the predefined error handler MPI_ERRORS_RETURN
may be used to cause error values to be returned. Note that MPI does not
guarantee that an MPI program can continue past an error. 
.sp
See the MPI man page for a full list of MPI error codes.

.SH SEE ALSO
.ft R
.nf
MPI_Publish_name
MPI_Lookup_name
MPI_Open_port

' @(#)MPI_Unpublish_name.3 1.8 06/03/09

