.\" -*- nroff -*-
.\" Copyright 2013 Los Alamos National Security, LLC. All rights reserved.
.\" Copyright 2010 Cisco Systems, Inc.  All rights reserved.
.\" Copyright 2006-2008 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" Copyright (c) 1996 Thinking Machines Corporation
.\" $COPYRIGHT$
.TH MPI_Dist_graph_create_adjacent 3 "#OMPI_DATE#" "#PACKAGE_VERSION#" "#PACKAGE_NAME#"
.SH NAME
\fBMPI_Dist_graph_create_adjacent \fP \- Makes a new communicator to which topology information has been attached.

.SH SYNTAX
.ft R
.SH C Syntax
.nf
#include <mpi.h>
int MPI_Dist_graph_create_adjacent(MPI_Comm \fIcomm_old\fP, int\fI indegree\fP, const int\fI sources[]\fP,
	const int\fI sourceweights[]\fP, int\fI outdegree\fP, const int\fI destinations\fP[], const int\fI destweights\fP[],
        MPI_Info info, int\fI reorder\fP, MPI_Comm\fI *comm_dist_graph\fP)

.fi
.SH Fortran Syntax
.nf
INCLUDE 'mpif.h'
MPI_DIST_GRAPH_CREATE_ADJACENT(\fICOMM_OLD, INDEGREE, SOURCES, SOURCEWEIGHTS, OUTDEGREE,
                DESTINATIONS, DESTWEIGHTS, INFO, REORDER, COMM_DIST_GRAPH, IERROR\fP)
	INTEGER	\fICOMM_OLD, INDEGREE, SOURCES(*), SOURCEWEIGHTS(*), OUTDEGREE, DESTINATIONS(*), DESTWEIGHTS(*), INFO\fP
	INTEGER	\fICOMM_DIST_GRAPH, IERROR\fP
	LOGICAL \fIREORDER\fP

.fi
.SH INPUT PARAMETERS
.ft R
.TP 1i
comm_old
Input communicator without topology (handle).
.TP 1i
indegree
Size of \fIsources\fP and \fIsourceweights\fP arrays (non-negative integer).
.TP 1i
sources
Ranks of processes for which the calling process is a destination (array of non-negative integers).
.TP 1i
sourceweights
Weights of the edges into the calling process (array of non-negative integers).
.TP 1i
outdegree
Size of \fIdestinations\fP and \fIdestweights\fP arrays (non-negative integer).
.TP 1i
destinations
Ranks of processes for which the calling process is a source (array of non-negative integers).
.TP 1i
destweights
Weights of the edges out of the calling process (array of non-negative integers).
.TP 1i
Hints on optimization and interpretation of weights (handle).
.TP 1i
reorder
Ranking may be reordered (true) or not (false) (logical).

.SH OUTPUT PARAMETERS
.ft R
.TP 1i
comm_dist_graph
Communicator with distibuted graph topology added (handle).
.ft R
.TP 1i
IERROR
Fortran only: Error status (integer).

.SH DESCRIPTION
.ft R
MPI_Dist_graph_create_adjacent creats a new communicator \fIcomm_dist_graph\fP with distrubuted
graph topology and returns a handle to the new communicator. The number of processes in
\fIcomm_dist_graph\fP is identical to the number of processes in \fIcomm_old\fP. Each process passes all
information about its incoming and outgoing edges in the virtual distributed graph topology.
The calling processes must ensure that each edge of the graph is described in the source
and in the destination process with the same weights. If there are multiple edges for a given
(source,dest) pair, then the sequence of the weights of these edges does not matter. The
complete communication topology is the combination of all edges shown in the \fIsources\fP arrays
of all processes in comm_old, which must be identical to the combination of all edges shown
in the \fIdestinations\fP arrays. Source and destination ranks must be process ranks of comm_old.
This allows a fully distributed specication of the communication graph. Isolated processes
(i.e., processes with no outgoing or incoming edges, that is, processes that have specied
indegree and outdegree as zero and thus do not occur as source or destination rank in the
graph specication) are allowed. The call to MPI_Dist_graph_create_adjacent is collective.

.SH WEIGHTS
.ft R
Weights are specied as non-negative integers and can be used to influence the process
remapping strategy and other internal MPI optimizations. For instance, approximate count
arguments of later communication calls along specic edges could be used as their edge
weights. Multiplicity of edges can likewise indicate more intense communication between
pairs of processes. However, the exact meaning of edge weights is not specied by the MPI
standard and is left to the implementation. An application can supply the special value
MPI_UNWEIGHTED for the weight array to indicate that all edges have the same (effectively
no) weight. It is erroneous to supply MPI_UNWEIGHTED for some but not all processes of
comm_old. If the graph is weighted but \fIindegree\fP or \fIoutdegree\fP is zero, then
MPI_WEIGHTS_EMPTY or any arbitrary array may be passed to sourceweights or destweights
respectively. Note that MPI_UNWEIGHTED and MPI_WEIGHTS_EMPTY are not special weight values;
rather they are special values for the total array argument. In Fortran, MPI_UNWEIGHTED
and MPI_WEIGHTS_EMPTY are objects like MPI_BOTTOM (not usable for initialization or
assignment). See MPI-3 ยง 2.5.4.

.SH ERRORS
Almost all MPI routines return an error value; C routines as the value of the function and Fortran routines in the last argument.
.sp
Before the error value is returned, the current MPI error handler is
called. By default, this error handler aborts the MPI job, except for I/O function errors. The error handler may be changed with MPI_Comm_set_errhandler; the predefined error handler MPI_ERRORS_RETURN may be used to cause error values to be returned. Note that MPI does not guarantee that an MPI program can continue past an error.

.SH SEE ALSO
.ft R
.sp
MPI_Dist_graph_create
MPI_Dist_graph_neighbors
MPI_Dist_graph_neighbors_count

