.TH fi_cm 3 "2015\-02\-26" "Libfabric Programmer\[aq]s Manual" "Libfabric v1.0.0rc5"
.SH NAME
.PP
fi_cm - Connection management operations
.PP
fi_connect / fi_listen / fi_accept / fi_reject / fi_shutdown : Manage
endpoint connection state.
.PP
fi_getname / fi_getpeer : Return local or peer endpoint address
.SH SYNOPSIS
.IP
.nf
\f[C]
#include\ <rdma/fi_cm.h>

int\ fi_connect(struct\ fid_ep\ *ep,\ const\ void\ *addr,
\ \ \ \ const\ void\ *param,\ size_t\ paramlen);

int\ fi_listen(struct\ fid_pep\ *pep);

int\ fi_accept(struct\ fid_ep\ *ep,\ const\ void\ *param,\ size_t\ paramlen);

int\ fi_reject(struct\ fid_pep\ *pep,\ fi_connreq_t\ connreq,
\ \ \ \ const\ void\ *param,\ size_t\ paramlen);

int\ fi_shutdown(struct\ fid_ep\ *ep,\ uint64_t\ flags);

int\ fi_getname(fid_t\ fid,\ void\ *addr,\ size_t\ *addrlen);

int\ fi_getpeer(struct\ fid_ep\ *ep,\ void\ *addr,\ size_t\ *addrlen);
\f[]
.fi
.SH ARGUMENTS
.PP
\f[I]ep / pep\f[] : Fabric endpoint on which to change connection state.
.PP
\f[I]addr\f[] : Buffer to store queried address (get), or address to
connect.
The address must be in the same format as that specified using fi_info:
addr_format when the endpoint was created.
.PP
\f[I]addrlen\f[] : On input, specifies size of addr buffer.
On output, stores number of bytes written to addr buffer.
.PP
\f[I]param\f[] : User-specified data exchanged as part of the connection
exchange.
.PP
\f[I]paramlen\f[] : Size of param buffer.
.PP
\f[I]info\f[] : Fabric information associated with a connection request.
.PP
\f[I]flags\f[] : Additional flags for controlling connection operation.
.PP
\f[I]context\f[] : User context associated with the request.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
Connection management functions are used to connect an
connection-oriented endpoint to a peer endpoint.
.SS fi_listen
.PP
The fi_listen call indicates that the specified endpoint should be
transitioned into a passive connection state, allowing it to accept
incoming connection requests.
Connection requests against a listening endpoint are reported
asynchronously to the user through a bound CM event queue using the
FI_CONNREQ event type.
The number of outstanding connection requests that can be queued at an
endpoint is limited by the listening endpoint\[aq]s backlog parameter.
The backlog is initialized based on administrative configuration values,
but may be adjusted through the fi_control call.
.SS fi_connect
.PP
The fi_connect call initiates a connection request on a
connection-oriented endpoint to the destination address.
.SS fi_accept / fi_reject
.PP
The fi_accept and fi_reject calls are used on the passive (listening)
side of a connection to accept or reject a connection request,
respectively.
To accept a connection, the listening application first waits for a
connection request event (FI_CONNREQ).
After receiving such an event, the application allocates a new endpoint
to accept the connection.
This endpoint must be allocated using an fi_info structure referencing
the connreq from this FI_CONNREQ event.
fi_accept is then invoked with the newly allocated endpoint.
If the listening application wishes to reject a connection request, it
calls fi_reject with the listening endpoint and a reference to the
connection request.
.PP
A successfully accepted connection request will result in the active
(connecting) endpoint seeing an FI_CONNECTED event on its associated
event queue.
A rejected or failed connection request will generate an error event.
The error entry will provide additional details describing the reason
for the failed attempt.
.PP
An FI_CONNECTED event will also be generated on the passive side for the
accepting endpoint once the connection has been properly established.
The fid of the FI_CONNECTED event will be that of the endpoint passed to
fi_accept as opposed to the listening passive endpoint.
Outbound data transfers cannot be initiated on a connection-oriented
endpoint until an FI_CONNECTED event has been generated.
However, receive buffers may be associated with an endpoint anytime.
.SS fi_shutdown
.PP
The fi_shutdown call is used to gracefully disconnect an endpoint from
its peer.
The flags parameter is reserved and must be 0.
.PP
Outstanding operations posted to the endpoint when fi_shutdown is called
will be canceled or discarded.
Notification of canceled operations will be reported by the provider to
the corresponding completion queue(s).
Discarded operations will silently be dropped, with no completions
generated.
The choice of canceling, versus discarding operations, is provider
dependent.
However, all canceled completions will be written before fi_shutdown
returns.
.PP
When called, fi_shutdown does not affect completions already written to
a completion queue.
Any queued completions associated with asynchronous operations posted to
the endpoint may still be retrieved from the corresponding completion
queue(s) after an endpoint has been shutdown.
.PP
An FI_SHUTDOWN event will be generated for an endpoint when the remote
peer issues a disconnect using fi_shutdown or abruptly closes the
endpoint.
Note that in the abrupt close case, an FI_SHUTDOWN event will only be
generated if the peer system is reachable and a service or kernel agent
on the peer system is able to notify the local endpoint that the
connection has been aborted.
.SS fi_getname / fi_getpeer
.PP
The fi_getname and fi_getpeer calls may be used to retrieve the local or
peer endpoint address, respectively.
On input, the addrlen parameter should indicate the size of the addr
buffer.
If the actual address is larger than what can fit into the buffer, it
will be truncated.
On output, addrlen is set to the size of the buffer needed to store the
address, which may be larger than the input value.
.SH FLAGS
.PP
Flag values are reserved and must be 0.
.SH RETURN VALUE
.PP
Returns 0 on success.
On error, a negative value corresponding to fabric errno is returned.
Fabric errno values are defined in \f[C]rdma/fi_errno.h\f[].
.SH ERRORS
.SH NOTES
.PP
For connection-oriented endpoints, the buffer referenced by param will
be sent as part of the connection request or response, subject to the
constraints of the underlying connection protocol.
Applications may use fi_getopt with the FI_OPT_CM_DATA_SIZE endpoint
option to determine the size of application data that may be exchanged
as part of a connection request or response.
The fi_connect, fi_accept, and fi_reject calls will silently truncate
any application data which cannot fit into underlying protocol messages.
User data exchanged as part of the connection process is available as
part of the fi_eq_cm_entry structure, for FI_CONNREQ and FI_CONNECTED
events, or as additional err_data to fi_eq_err_entry, in the case of a
rejected connection.
.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
\f[C]fi_getinfo\f[](3), \f[C]fi_endpoint\f[](3), \f[C]fi_domain\f[](3),
\f[C]fi_eq\f[](3)
.SH AUTHORS
OpenFabrics.
