.TH fi_tagged 3 "2015\-04\-28" "Libfabric Programmer\[aq]s Manual" "Libfabric v1.0.0"
.SH NAME
.PP
fi_tagged - Tagged data transfer operations
.TP
.B fi_trecv / fi_trecvv / fi_trecvmsg
Post a buffer to receive an incoming message
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B fi_tsend / fi_tsendv / fi_tsendmsg / fi_tinject / fi_tsenddata
Initiate an operation to send a message
.RS
.RE
.SH SYNOPSIS
.IP
.nf
\f[C]
#include\ <rdma/fi_tagged.h>

ssize_t\ fi_trecv(struct\ fid_ep\ *ep,\ void\ *buf,\ size_t\ len,\ void\ *desc,
\ \ \ \ fi_addr_t\ src_addr,\ uint64_t\ tag,\ uint64_t\ ignore,\ void\ *context);

ssize_t\ fi_trecvv(struct\ fid_ep\ *ep,\ const\ struct\ iovec\ *iov,\ void\ *desc,
\ \ \ \ size_t\ count,\ fi_addr_t\ src_addr,\ uint64_t\ tag,\ uint4_t\ ignore,
\ \ \ \ void\ *context);

ssize_t\ fi_trecvmsg(struct\ fid_ep\ *ep,\ const\ struct\ fi_msg_tagged\ *msg,
\ \ \ \ uint64_t\ flags);

ssize_t\ fi_tsend(struct\ fid_ep\ *ep,\ const\ void\ *buf,\ size_t\ len,
\ \ \ \ void\ *desc,\ fi_addr_t\ dest_addr,\ uint64_t\ tag,\ void\ *context);

ssize_t\ fi_tsendv(struct\ fid_ep\ *ep,\ const\ struct\ iovec\ *iov,
\ \ \ \ void\ *desc,\ size_t\ count,\ fi_addr_t\ dest_addr,\ uint64_t\ tag,
\ \ \ \ void\ *context);

ssize_t\ fi_tsendmsg(struct\ fid_ep\ *ep,\ const\ struct\ fi_msg_tagged\ *msg,
\ \ \ \ uint64_t\ flags);

ssize_t\ fi_tinject(struct\ fid_ep\ *ep,\ const\ void\ *buf,\ size_t\ len,
\ \ \ \ fi_addr_t\ dest_addr,\ uint64_t\ tag);

ssize_t\ fi_tsenddata(struct\ fid_ep\ *ep,\ const\ void\ *buf,\ size_t\ len,
\ \ \ \ void\ *desc,\ uint64_t\ data,\ fi_addr_t\ dest_addr,\ uint64_t\ tag,
\ \ \ \ void\ *context);
\f[]
.fi
.SH ARGUMENTS
.PP
\f[I]fid\f[] : Fabric endpoint on which to initiate tagged communication
operation.
.PP
\f[I]buf\f[] : Data buffer to send or receive.
.PP
\f[I]len\f[] : Length of data buffer to send or receive.
.PP
\f[I]iov\f[] : Vectored data buffer.
.PP
\f[I]count\f[] : Count of vectored data entries.
.PP
\f[I]tag\f[] : Tag associated with the message.
.PP
\f[I]ignore\f[] : Mask of bits to ignore applied to the tag for receive
operations.
.PP
\f[I]desc\f[] : Memory descriptor associated with the data buffer
.PP
\f[I]data\f[] : Remote CQ data to transfer with the sent data.
.PP
\f[I]dest_addr\f[] : Destination address for connectionless transfers.
Ignored for connected endpoints.
.PP
\f[I]src_addr\f[] : Source address to receive from for connectionless
transfers.
Applies only to connectionless endpoints with the FI_DIRECTED_RECV
capability enabled, otherwise this field is ignored.
If set to FI_ADDR_UNSPEC, any source address may match.
.PP
\f[I]msg\f[] : Message descriptor for send and receive operations.
.PP
\f[I]flags\f[] : Additional flags to apply for the send or receive
operation.
.PP
\f[I]context\f[] : User specified pointer to associate with the
operation.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
Tagged messages are data transfers which carry a key or tag with the
message buffer.
The tag is used at the receiving endpoint to match the incoming message
with a corresponding receive buffer.
Message tags match when the receive buffer tag is the same as the send
buffer tag with the ignored bits masked out.
This can be stated as:
.IP
.nf
\f[C]
send_tag\ &\ ~ignore\ ==\ recv_tag\ &\ ~ignore
\f[]
.fi
.PP
In general, message tags are checked against receive buffers in the
order in which messages have been posted to the endpoint.
See the ordering discussion below for more details.
.PP
The send functions -- fi_tsend, fi_tsendv, fi_tsendmsg, fi_tinject, and
fi_tsenddata -- are used to transmit a tagged message from one endpoint
to another endpoint.
The main difference between send functions are the number and type of
parameters that they accept as input.
Otherwise, they perform the same general function.
.PP
The receive functions -- fi_trecv, fi_trecvv, fi_recvmsg -- post a data
buffer to an endpoint to receive inbound tagged messages.
Similar to the send operations, receive operations operate
asynchronously.
Users should not touch the posted data buffer(s) until the receive
operation has completed.
Posted receive buffers are matched with inbound send messages based on
the tags associated with the send and receive buffers.
.PP
Completed message operations are reported to the user through one or
more event collectors associated with the endpoint.
Users provide context which are associated with each operation, and is
returned to the user as part of the event completion.
See fi_cq for completion event details.
.SS fi_tsend
.PP
The call fi_tsend transfers the data contained in the user-specified
data buffer to a remote endpoint, with message boundaries being
maintained.
The local endpoint must be connected to a remote endpoint or destination
before fi_tsend is called.
Unless the endpoint has been configured differently, the data buffer
passed into fi_tsend must not be touched by the application until the
fi_tsend call completes asynchronously.
.SS fi_tsendv
.PP
The fi_tsendv call adds support for a scatter-gather list to fi_tsend.
The fi_sendv transfers the set of data buffers referenced by the iov
parameter to a remote endpoint as a single message.
.SS fi_tsendmsg
.PP
The fi_tsendmsg call supports data transfers over both connected and
unconnected endpoints, with the ability to control the send operation
per call through the use of flags.
The fi_tsendmsg function takes a struct fi_msg_tagged as input.
.IP
.nf
\f[C]
struct\ fi_msg_tagged\ {
\ \ \ \ const\ struct\ iovec\ *msg_iov;\ /*\ scatter-gather\ array\ */
\ \ \ \ void\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ *desc;\ \ \ \ /*\ data\ descriptor\ */
\ \ \ \ size_t\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ iov_count;/*\ #\ elements\ in\ msg_iov\ *
\ \ \ \ const\ void\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ *addr;\ \ \ \ /*\ optional\ endpoint\ address\ */
\ \ \ \ uint64_t\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ tag;\ \ \ \ \ \ /*\ tag\ associated\ with\ message\ */
\ \ \ \ uint64_t\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ ignore;\ \ \ /*\ mask\ applied\ to\ tag\ for\ receives\ */
\ \ \ \ void\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ *context;\ /*\ user-defined\ context\ */
\ \ \ \ uint64_t\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ data;\ \ \ \ \ /*\ optional\ immediate\ data\ */
};
\f[]
.fi
.SS fi_tinject
.PP
The tagged inject call is an optimized version of fi_tsend.
The fi_tinject function behaves as if the FI_INJECT transfer flag were
set, and FI_COMPLETION were not.
That is, the data buffer is available for reuse immediately on returning
from from fi_tinject, and no completion event will be generated for this
send.
The completion event will be suppressed even if the endpoint has not
been configured with FI_COMPLETION.
See the flags discussion below for more details.
.SS fi_tsenddata
.PP
The tagged send data call is similar to fi_tsend, but allows for the
sending of remote CQ data (see FI_REMOTE_CQ_DATA flag) as part of the
transfer.
.SS fi_trecv
.PP
The fi_trecv call posts a data buffer to the receive queue of the
corresponding endpoint.
Posted receives are searched in the order in which they were posted in
order to match sends.
Message boundaries are maintained.
The order in which the receives complete is dependent on the endpoint
type and protocol.
.SS fi_trecvv
.PP
The fi_trecvv call adds support for a scatter-gather list to fi_trecv.
The fi_trecvv posts the set of data buffers referenced by the iov
parameter to a receive incoming data.
.SS fi_trecvmsg
.PP
The fi_trecvmsg call supports posting buffers over both connected and
unconnected endpoints, with the ability to control the receive operation
per call through the use of flags.
The fi_trecvmsg function takes a struct fi_msg_tagged as input.
.SH FLAGS
.PP
The fi_trecvmsg and fi_tsendmsg calls allow the user to specify flags
which can change the default message handling of the endpoint.
Flags specified with fi_trecvmsg / fi_tsendmsg override most flags
previously configured with the endpoint, except where noted (see
fi_endpoint).
The following list of flags are usable with fi_trecvmsg and/or
fi_tsendmsg.
.PP
\f[I]FI_REMOTE_CQ_DATA\f[] : Applies to fi_tsendmsg and fi_tsenddata.
Indicates that remote CQ data is available and should be sent as part of
the request.
See fi_getinfo for additional details on FI_REMOTE_CQ_DATA.
.PP
\f[I]FI_COMPLETION\f[] : Indicates that a completion entry should be
generated for the specified operation.
The endpoint must be bound to an event queue with FI_COMPLETION that
corresponds to the specified operation, or this flag is ignored.
.PP
\f[I]FI_MORE\f[] : Indicates that the user has additional requests that
will immediately be posted after the current call returns.
Use of this flag may improve performance by enabling the provider to
optimize its access to the fabric hardware.
.PP
\f[I]FI_INJECT\f[] : Applies to fi_tsendmsg.
Indicates that the outbound data buffer should be returned to user
immediately after the send call returns, even if the operation is
handled asynchronously.
This may require that the underlying provider implementation copy the
data into a local buffer and transfer out of that buffer.
.PP
\f[I]FI_INJECT_COMPLETE\f[] : Applies to fi_tsendmsg.
Indicates that a completion should be generated when the source
buffer(s) may be reused.
.PP
\f[I]FI_TRANSMIT_COMPLETE\f[] : Applies to fi_tsendmsg.
Indicates that a completion should not be generated until the operation
has been successfully transmitted and is no longer being tracked by the
provider.
.PP
\f[I]FI_FENCE\f[] : Applies to transmits.
Indicates that the requested operation, also known as the fenced
operation, be deferred until all previous operations targeting the same
target endpoint have completed.
.PP
The following flags may be used with fi_trecvmsg.
.PP
\f[I]FI_PEEK\f[] : The peek flag may be used to see if a specified
message has arrived.
A peek request is often useful on endpoints that have provider allocated
buffering enabled (see fi_rx_attr total_buffered_recv).
Unlike standard receive operations, a receive operation with the FI_PEEK
flag set does not remain queued with the provider until the peek
completes successfully.
If no data is available, the FI_PEEK receive will complete with a status
of FI_ENOMSG.
.PP
If a peek request locates a matching message, the operation will
complete successfully.
The returned completion data will indicate the meta-data associated with
the message, such as the message length, completion flags, available CQ
data, tag, and source address.
The data available is subject to the completion entry format (e.g.
struct fi_cq_tagged_entry).
.PP
An application may supply a buffer as part of the peek operation.
If given, the provider may return a copy of the message data.
The returned data is limited to the size of the input buffer(s) or the
message size, if smaller.
A provider indicates if data is available by setting the buf field of
the CQ entry to the user\[aq]s first input buffer.
If buf is NULL, no data was available to return.
A provider may return NULL even if the peek operation completes
successfully.
Note that the CQ entry len field will reference the size of the message,
not necessarily the size of the returned data.
.PP
\f[I]FI_CLAIM\f[] : If this flag is used in conjunction with FI_PEEK, it
indicates if the peek request completes successfully -- indicating that
a matching message was located -- the message is claimed by caller.
Claimed messages can only be retrieved using a subsequent, paired
receive operation with the FI_CLAIM flag set.
A receive operation with the FI_CLAIM flag set, but FI_PEEK not set is
used to retrieve a previously claimed message.
.PP
In order to use the FI_CLAIM flag, an application must supply a struct
fi_context structure as the context for the receive operation.
The same fi_context structure used for an FI_PEEK + FI_CLAIM operation
must be used by the paired FI_CLAIM request.
.PP
\f[I]FI_DISCARD\f[] : This flag must be used in conjunction with either
FI_PEEK or FI_CLAIM.
If this flag is used in conjunction with FI_PEEK, it indicates if the
peek request completes successfully -- indicating that a matching
message was located -- the message is discarded by the provider, as the
data is not needed by the application.
This flag may also be used in conjunction with FI_CLAIM in order to
retrieve and discard a message previously claimed using an FI_PEEK +
FI_CLAIM request.
.PP
If this flag is set, the input buffer(s) and length parameters.
.SH RETURN VALUE
.PP
The tagged send and receive calls return 0 on success.
On error, a negative value corresponding to fabric _errno _ is returned.
Fabric errno values are defined in \f[C]fi_errno.h\f[].
.SH ERRORS
.PP
\f[I]-FI_EAGAIN\f[] : Indicates that the underlying provider currently
lacks the resources needed to initiate the requested operation.
This may be the result of insufficient internal buffering, in the case
of FI_INJECT, or processing queues are full.
The operation may be retried after additional provider resources become
available, usually through the completion of currently outstanding
operations.
.PP
\f[I]-FI_EINVAL\f[] : Indicates that an invalid argument was supplied by
the user.
.PP
\f[I]-FI_EOTHER\f[] : Indicates that an unspecified error occurred.
.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
\f[C]fi_getinfo\f[](3), \f[C]fi_endpoint\f[](3), \f[C]fi_domain\f[](3),
\f[C]fi_cq\f[](3)
.SH AUTHORS
OpenFabrics.
