.TH "pmix_put" "3" "2016\-03\-01" "PMIx Programmer\[aq]s Manual" "\@VERSION\@"
.SH NAME
.PP
PMIx_Put \- Push a value into the client\[aq]s namespace
.SH SYNOPSIS
.IP
.nf
\f[C]
#include\ <pmix.h>

pmix\\_status\\_t\ PMIx\\_Init(pmix\\_scope\\_t\ scope,\ const\ char\ key[],\ pmix\\_value\\_t\ *val);
\f[]
.fi
.SH ARGUMENTS
.PP
\f[I]scope\f[] : Defines a scope for data "put" by PMI per the
following:
.IP "(a)" 4
PMI_LOCAL \- the data is intended only for other application processes
on the same node.
Data marked in this way will not be included in data packages sent to
remote requestors
.IP "(b)" 4
PMI_REMOTE \- the data is intended solely for application processes on
remote nodes.
Data marked in this way will not be shared with other processes on the
same node
.IP "(c)" 4
PMI_GLOBAL \- the data is to be shared with all other requesting
processes, regardless of location
.PP
\f[I]key\f[] : String key identifying the information.
This can be either one of the PMIx defined attributes, or a
user\-defined value
.PP
\f[I]val\f[] : Pointer to a pmix_value_t structure containing the data
to be pushed along with the type of the provided data.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
Push a value into the client\[aq]s namespace.
The client library will cache the information locally until
\f[I]PMIx_Commit\f[] is called.
The provided scope value is passed to the local PMIx server, which will
distribute the data as directed.
.SH RETURN VALUE
.PP
Returns PMIX_SUCCESS on success.
On error, a negative value corresponding to a PMIx errno is returned.
.SH ERRORS
.PP
PMIx errno values are defined in \f[C]pmix_common.h\f[].
.SH NOTES
.PP
See \[aq]pmix_common.h\[aq] for definition of the pmix_value_t
structure.
.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
\f[C]PMIx_Constants\f[](7), \f[C]PMIx_Structures\f[](7)
.SH AUTHORS
PMIx.
