C and Fortran Bindings
======================

The C and Fortran (mpi_f08) bindings are generated from Python code in
``ompi/mpi/bindings``. Both the language bindings are generated from
template files for each function. In the C case, each template file corresponds
to a single generated C file, while in the Fortran case there are three major
files generated for all functions.

The Python code depends on special prototype lines used with both the C and
Fortran bindings. These "prototypes" are designed to be easy to parse and use
specific type constants that can be mapped directly to the expanded
language-specific code, error-handling, and conversion code.

C Bindings
----------

This will walk through adding (or converting) a plain-C binding into a
templated version controlled by the script.

As an example, for ``MPI_Send`` you might have a C file that looks something
like this:

.. code-block:: c

    #include "ompi_config.h"
    ...other includes...

    int MPI_Send(const void *buf, int count, MPI_Datatype datatype, int dest,
                 int tag, MPI_Comm comm)
    {
        ...internal checks...
        return internal_mpi_send(buf, count, datatype, dest, tag, comm);
    }

To convert this to a template, you will have to first ensure that only a single
function is defined in the file, removing or abstracting out static functions,
and separating multiple definitions, such as ``MPI_Send`` and ``MPI_Isend``,
into different files. The template should also not include any macro-processing
that attempts to change the name of the function or parameter types; this code
should be generated by the script, or abstracted into header files that can
work easily with multiple functions.

At this point, the template should look like the example above, with a "header"
section, with simple includes or macros, maybe a static global, and the
function definition and nothing else.

The next step is to convert the signature line into the prototype format that
the script expects. For ``MPI_Send``, this should look something like this:

.. code-block:: c

    PROTOTYPE ERROR_CLASS send(BUFFER buf, COUNT count, DATATYPE type, RANK dest,
                               TAG tag, COMM comm)

Notice how the function name is changed, the ``MPI_`` prefix removed and the
rest converted to lowercase, and also how each parameter is simplified into a
``TYPE name`` format, where the ``TYPE`` conforms to an allowed list in
``ompi/mpi/bindings/ompi_bindings/c_type.py``. For newer functions and types,
you may have to extend the ``c_type.py`` file with a new class showing how to
handle the type.

The final step is to update ``Makefile.am``, adding the template name, in this
case ``send.c.in``, to the ``prototype_sources`` variable, and the generated
file name, ``generated_send.c``, to ``interface_profile_sources``. The
generated file name must be of the form ``generated_${basename}.c``, where
``${basename}`` is the name of the template file stripped of all extensions.

Fortran Bindings
----------------

Adding new Fortran bindings follows a similar process to the C version above.
All new interfaces are actually based on a single C-template file following the
same format as the C interface templates. However, the C file generated will
use Fortran-specific arguments, including ``CFI_*`` arguments, when TS 29113 is
enabled, ``MPI_Fint *`` arguments in other cases, and others specific to how
the Fortran MPI types are defined. Most of these files perform Fortran-specific
error handling, Fortran-to-C type conversion, and other necessary steps before
calling the actually C bindings with the proper arguments.

These templates are used not only to generate a C backing file for the Fortran
code, but also the Fortran interface definitions and the Fortran subroutines
corresponding to the generated C file. These are output in three separate files:

* ``ompi/mpi/fortran/use-mpi-f08/api_f08_generated.F90``
* ``ompi/mpi/fortran/use-mpi-f08/base/api_f08_generated.c``
* ``ompi/mpi/fortran/use-mpi-f08/mod/mpi-f08-interfaces-generated.h``

The Fortran file ``api_f08_generated.F90`` contains all the internal subroutine
definitions, each of which makes a call into corresponding C functions. The
internal subroutine names are mapped to the external interface, including
multiple interfaces for the bigcount version of functions, in
``mpi-f08-interfaces-generated.h``. The C file ``api_f08_generated.c``
basically contains a concatenation of all fully expanded C templates.
These files contain preprocessing directives to ensure they can support
compilers with and without TS 29113 support, allowing use of
``CFI_cdesc_t`` types when available (see `Fortran 2018`_ for more details).

.. _Fortran 2018: https://fortranwiki.org/fortran/show/Fortran+2018

If a new type needs to be added, then one will need to extend
``fortran_type.py`` in ``ompi/mpi/bindings/ompi_bindings`` with an additional
type class specifying how to handle the type in the above generated files,
including any required key-value attributes for more complicated types. New
types use a ``Type`` base class with functions that can be implemented by
derived classes, each returning expanded Fortran or C code.

Shared definitions: one source of truth
---------------------------------------

Two different generators emit the MPI Forum (standard) ABI, and they are
driven by different inputs:

* ``bindings.py`` (with the ``ompi_bindings`` package) generates the bindings
  themselves, from the ``.c.in`` templates.
* ``c_header.py`` generates the ABI ``mpi.h``, from ``pympistandard`` plus the
  ABI JSON.

Anything the two must agree on |mdash| the ``_ABI_INTERNAL`` name-mangling
suffix, the opaque handle types, the list of deprecated/removed symbols that
are pruned from the ABI |mdash| therefore lives in
``ompi_bindings/consts.py``, which is the single source of truth.  Do not
define such a value a second time in ``c_header.py``: the two generators would
then be free to drift, and the emitted header would stop matching the emitted
bindings.

The tests described below enforce this, including a check that the deprecated
list does not drift away from the ``__mpi_interface_deprecated__`` and
``__mpi_interface_removed__`` markers in ``ompi/include/mpi.h.in``.

Unit-testing the generator
--------------------------

The generator is covered by unit tests in
``ompi/test/bindings-generator/test_bindings_generator.py``, which run as part of
``make check`` (and therefore in CI).  They are plain Python: they import
``ompi_bindings`` straight out of the source tree and render a handful of real
``.c.in`` templates in memory.  Nothing is compiled, no MPI is launched, and no
build products are needed, so you can also run them directly against a source
tree that has never been built:

.. code-block:: sh

   shell$ python3 ompi/test/bindings-generator/test_bindings_generator.py

The tests cover the parts of the generator that are pure and deterministic, and
where a defect would otherwise only surface as a compile error in the generated
code (or, for a naming or casing mistake, not until run time):

* **Prototype parameter parsing** |mdash| the ``NAME``, ``NAME:COUNT``, and
  ``NAME:COUNT:OUTCOUNT`` forms.
* **Name mangling** |mdash| ``MPI_Xxx`` / ``PMPI_Xxx`` / ``_c`` bigcount
  suffixes, and the ``_ABI_INTERNAL`` suffix used to keep the standard ABI
  names from colliding with Open MPI's own.
* **Prototype classification** |mdash| the predicates that decide whether a
  function gets a bigcount variant or needs user-callback wrappers.
* **Template rendering** |mdash| that representative templates render through
  *both* the ``ompi`` and ``standard`` ABI paths without raising, and that the
  standard ABI output calls the internal ``ompi_abi_*`` shim rather than the
  public ``MPI_*`` symbol.

If you add a new type to the ``Type`` hierarchy, a new prototype form, or a new
code-emission path, add a test here as well.

Other Considerations
--------------------

Keep in mind that the generated files will not be deleted with a ``make clean``
or ``make distclean``; instead use ``make maintainer-clean`` to delete those.
