.TH "pmix_abort" "3" "2015\-10\-25" "PMIx Programmer\[aq]s Manual" "\@VERSION\@"
.SH NAME
.PP
PMIx_Abort \- Abort the specified processes
.SH SYNOPSIS
.IP
.nf
\f[C]
#include\ <pmix.h>

pmix_status_t\ PMIx_Abort(int\ status,\ const\ char\ msg[],
\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ pmix_proc_t\ procs[],\ size_t\ nprocs);
\f[]
.fi
.SH ARGUMENTS
.PP
\f[I]status\f[] : Status value to be returned.
A value of zero is permitted by PMIx, but may not be returned by some
resource managers.
.PP
\f[I]msg\f[] : A string message to be displayed
.PP
\f[I]procs\f[] : An array of pmix_proc_t structures defining the
processes to be aborted.
A \f[I]NULL\f[] for the proc array indicates that all processes in the
caller\[aq]s nspace are to be aborted.
A wildcard value for the rank in any structure indicates that all
processes in that nspace are to be aborted.
.PP
\f[I]nprocs\f[] : Number of pmix_proc_t structures in the \f[I]procs\f[]
array
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
Request that the provided array of procs be aborted, returning the
provided \f[I]status\f[] and printing the provided message.
A \f[I]NULL\f[] for the proc array indicates that all processes in the
caller\[aq]s nspace are to be aborted.
.PP
The response to this request is somewhat dependent on the specific
resource manager and its configuration (e.g., some resource managers
will not abort the application if the provided \f[I]status\f[] is zero
unless specifically configured to do so), and thus lies outside the
control of PMIx itself.
However, the client will inform the RM of the request that the
application be aborted, regardless of the value of the provided
\f[I]status\f[].
.PP
Passing a \f[I]NULL\f[] msg parameter is allowed.
Note that race conditions caused by multiple processes calling
PMIx_Abort are left to the server implementation to resolve with regard
to which status is returned and what messages (if any) are printed.
.SH RETURN VALUE
.PP
Returns PMIX_SUCCESS on success.
On error, a negative value corresponding to a PMIx errno is returned.
.SH ERRORS
.PP
PMIx errno values are defined in \f[C]pmix_common.h\f[].
.SH NOTES
.SH SEE ALSO
.SH AUTHORS
PMIx.
