.TH "hwloc_topology_cpubind_support" 3 "17 Apr 2010" "Version 1.0rc1" "Hardware Locality (hwloc)" \" -*- nroff -*-
.ad l
.nh
.SH NAME
hwloc_topology_cpubind_support \- 
.PP
Flags describing actual binding support for this topology.  

.SH SYNOPSIS
.br
.PP
.PP
\fC#include <hwloc.h>\fP
.SS "Data Fields"

.in +1c
.ti -1c
.RI "unsigned char \fBset_thisproc_cpubind\fP"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "unsigned char \fBget_thisproc_cpubind\fP"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "unsigned char \fBset_proc_cpubind\fP"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "unsigned char \fBget_proc_cpubind\fP"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "unsigned char \fBset_thisthread_cpubind\fP"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "unsigned char \fBget_thisthread_cpubind\fP"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "unsigned char \fBset_thread_cpubind\fP"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "unsigned char \fBget_thread_cpubind\fP"
.br
.in -1c
.SH "Detailed Description"
.PP 
Flags describing actual binding support for this topology. 
.SH "Field Documentation"
.PP 
.SS "unsigned char \fBhwloc_topology_cpubind_support::get_proc_cpubind\fP"Getting the binding of a whole given process is supported. 
.SS "unsigned char \fBhwloc_topology_cpubind_support::get_thisproc_cpubind\fP"Getting the binding of the whole current process is supported. 
.SS "unsigned char \fBhwloc_topology_cpubind_support::get_thisthread_cpubind\fP"Getting the binding of the current thread only is supported. 
.SS "unsigned char \fBhwloc_topology_cpubind_support::get_thread_cpubind\fP"Getting the binding of a given thread only is supported. 
.SS "unsigned char \fBhwloc_topology_cpubind_support::set_proc_cpubind\fP"Binding a whole given process is supported. 
.SS "unsigned char \fBhwloc_topology_cpubind_support::set_thisproc_cpubind\fP"Binding the whole current process is supported. 
.SS "unsigned char \fBhwloc_topology_cpubind_support::set_thisthread_cpubind\fP"Binding the current thread only is supported. 
.SS "unsigned char \fBhwloc_topology_cpubind_support::set_thread_cpubind\fP"Binding a given thread only is supported. 

.SH "Author"
.PP 
Generated automatically by Doxygen for Hardware Locality (hwloc) from the source code.
