.TH "hwloc_obj_memory_s" 3 "17 Apr 2010" "Version 1.0rc1" "Hardware Locality (hwloc)" \" -*- nroff -*-
.ad l
.nh
.SH NAME
hwloc_obj_memory_s \- 
.PP
Object memory.  

.SH SYNOPSIS
.br
.PP
.PP
\fC#include <hwloc.h>\fP
.SS "Data Structures"

.in +1c
.ti -1c
.RI "struct \fBhwloc_obj_memory_page_type_s\fP"
.br
.RI "\fIArray of local memory page types, \fCNULL\fP if no local memory and \fCpage_types\fP is 0. \fP"
.in -1c
.SS "Data Fields"

.in +1c
.ti -1c
.RI "uint64_t \fBtotal_memory\fP"
.br
.RI "\fITotal memory (in bytes) in this object and its children. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "uint64_t \fBlocal_memory\fP"
.br
.RI "\fILocal memory (in bytes). \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "unsigned \fBpage_types_len\fP"
.br
.RI "\fISize of array \fCpage_types\fP. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "struct \fBhwloc_obj_memory_s::hwloc_obj_memory_page_type_s\fP * \fBpage_types\fP"
.br
.RI "\fIArray of local memory page types, \fCNULL\fP if no local memory and \fCpage_types\fP is 0. \fP"
.in -1c
.SH "Detailed Description"
.PP 
Object memory. 
.SH "Field Documentation"
.PP 
.SS "uint64_t \fBhwloc_obj_memory_s::local_memory\fP"
.PP
Local memory (in bytes). 
.SS "struct \fBhwloc_obj_memory_s::hwloc_obj_memory_page_type_s\fP *  \fBhwloc_obj_memory_s::page_types\fP"
.PP
Array of local memory page types, \fCNULL\fP if no local memory and \fCpage_types\fP is 0. The array is sorted by increasing \fCsize\fP fields. It contains \fCpage_types_len\fP slots. 
.SS "unsigned \fBhwloc_obj_memory_s::page_types_len\fP"
.PP
Size of array \fCpage_types\fP. 
.SS "uint64_t \fBhwloc_obj_memory_s::total_memory\fP"
.PP
Total memory (in bytes) in this object and its children. 

.SH "Author"
.PP 
Generated automatically by Doxygen for Hardware Locality (hwloc) from the source code.
