.TH "hwloc_obj" 3 "17 Apr 2010" "Version 1.0rc1" "Hardware Locality (hwloc)" \" -*- nroff -*-
.ad l
.nh
.SH NAME
hwloc_obj \- 
.PP
Structure of a topology object.  

.SH SYNOPSIS
.br
.PP
.PP
\fC#include <hwloc.h>\fP
.SS "Data Fields"

.in +1c
.ti -1c
.RI "\fBhwloc_obj_type_t\fP \fBtype\fP"
.br
.RI "\fIType of object. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "unsigned \fBos_index\fP"
.br
.RI "\fIOS-provided physical index number. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "char * \fBname\fP"
.br
.RI "\fIObject description if any. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "struct \fBhwloc_obj_memory_s\fP \fBmemory\fP"
.br
.RI "\fIMemory attributes. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "union \fBhwloc_obj_attr_u\fP * \fBattr\fP"
.br
.RI "\fIObject type-specific Attributes. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "unsigned \fBdepth\fP"
.br
.RI "\fIVertical index in the hierarchy. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "unsigned \fBlogical_index\fP"
.br
.RI "\fIHorizontal index in the whole list of similar objects, could be a 'cousin_rank' since it's the rank within the 'cousin' list below. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "signed \fBos_level\fP"
.br
.RI "\fIOS-provided physical level, -1 if unknown or meaningless. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "struct \fBhwloc_obj\fP * \fBnext_cousin\fP"
.br
.RI "\fINext object of same type. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "struct \fBhwloc_obj\fP * \fBprev_cousin\fP"
.br
.RI "\fIPrevious object of same type. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "struct \fBhwloc_obj\fP * \fBparent\fP"
.br
.RI "\fIParent, \fCNULL\fP if root (system object). \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "unsigned \fBsibling_rank\fP"
.br
.RI "\fIIndex in parent's \fCchildren\fP[] array. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "struct \fBhwloc_obj\fP * \fBnext_sibling\fP"
.br
.RI "\fINext object below the same parent. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "struct \fBhwloc_obj\fP * \fBprev_sibling\fP"
.br
.RI "\fIPrevious object below the same parent. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "unsigned \fBarity\fP"
.br
.RI "\fINumber of children. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "struct \fBhwloc_obj\fP ** \fBchildren\fP"
.br
.RI "\fIChildren, \fCchildren\fP[0 .. arity -1]. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "struct \fBhwloc_obj\fP * \fBfirst_child\fP"
.br
.RI "\fIFirst child. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "struct \fBhwloc_obj\fP * \fBlast_child\fP"
.br
.RI "\fILast child. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "void * \fBuserdata\fP"
.br
.RI "\fIApplication-given private data pointer, initialized to \fCNULL\fP, use it as you wish. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "\fBhwloc_cpuset_t\fP \fBcpuset\fP"
.br
.RI "\fICPUs covered by this object. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "\fBhwloc_cpuset_t\fP \fBcomplete_cpuset\fP"
.br
.RI "\fIThe complete CPU set of logical processors of this object,. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "\fBhwloc_cpuset_t\fP \fBonline_cpuset\fP"
.br
.RI "\fIThe CPU set of online logical processors. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "\fBhwloc_cpuset_t\fP \fBallowed_cpuset\fP"
.br
.RI "\fIThe CPU set of allowed logical processors. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "\fBhwloc_cpuset_t\fP \fBnodeset\fP"
.br
.RI "\fINUMA nodes covered by this object or containing this object. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "\fBhwloc_cpuset_t\fP \fBcomplete_nodeset\fP"
.br
.RI "\fIThe complete NUMA node set of this object,. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "\fBhwloc_cpuset_t\fP \fBallowed_nodeset\fP"
.br
.RI "\fIThe set of allowed NUMA memory nodes. \fP"
.in -1c
.SH "Detailed Description"
.PP 
Structure of a topology object. 

Applications mustn't modify any field except userdata . 
.SH "Field Documentation"
.PP 
.SS "\fBhwloc_cpuset_t\fP \fBhwloc_obj::allowed_cpuset\fP"
.PP
The CPU set of allowed logical processors. This includes the CPUs contained in this object which are allowed for binding, i.e. passing them to the hwloc binding functions should not return permission errors. This is usually restricted by administration rules. Some of them may however be offline so binding to them may still not be possible, see online_cpuset.
.PP
\fBNote:\fP
.RS 4
Its value must not be changed, hwloc_cpuset_dup must be used instead. 
.RE
.PP

.SS "\fBhwloc_cpuset_t\fP \fBhwloc_obj::allowed_nodeset\fP"
.PP
The set of allowed NUMA memory nodes. This includes the NUMA memory nodes contained in this object which are allowed for memory allocation, i.e. passing them to NUMA node-directed memory allocation should not return permission errors. This is usually restricted by administration rules.
.PP
\fBNote:\fP
.RS 4
Its value must not be changed, hwloc_cpuset_dup must be used instead. 
.RE
.PP

.SS "unsigned \fBhwloc_obj::arity\fP"
.PP
Number of children. 
.SS "union \fBhwloc_obj_attr_u\fP* \fBhwloc_obj::attr\fP"
.PP
Object type-specific Attributes. 
.SS "struct \fBhwloc_obj\fP** \fBhwloc_obj::children\fP"
.PP
Children, \fCchildren\fP[0 .. arity -1]. 
.SS "\fBhwloc_cpuset_t\fP \fBhwloc_obj::complete_cpuset\fP"
.PP
The complete CPU set of logical processors of this object,. This includes not only the same as the cpuset field, but also the CPUs for which topology information is unknown or incomplete, and the CPUs that are ignored when the HWLOC_TOPOLOGY_FLAG_WHOLE_SYSTEM flag is not set. Thus no corresponding PU object may be found in the topology, because the precise position is undefined. It is however known that it would be somewhere under this object.
.PP
\fBNote:\fP
.RS 4
Its value must not be changed, hwloc_cpuset_dup must be used instead. 
.RE
.PP

.SS "\fBhwloc_cpuset_t\fP \fBhwloc_obj::complete_nodeset\fP"
.PP
The complete NUMA node set of this object,. This includes not only the same as the nodeset field, but also the NUMA nodes for which topology information is unknown or incomplete, and the nodes that are ignored when the HWLOC_TOPOLOGY_FLAG_WHOLE_SYSTEM flag is not set. Thus no corresponding NODE object may be found in the topology, because the precise position is undefined. It is however known that it would be somewhere under this object.
.PP
\fBNote:\fP
.RS 4
Its value must not be changed, hwloc_cpuset_dup must be used instead. 
.RE
.PP

.SS "\fBhwloc_cpuset_t\fP \fBhwloc_obj::cpuset\fP"
.PP
CPUs covered by this object. This is the set of CPUs for which there are PU objects in the topology under this object, i.e. which are known to be physically contained in this object and known how (the children path between this object and the PU objects).
.PP
If the HWLOC_TOPOLOGY_FLAG_WHOLE_SYSTEM configuration flag is set, some of these CPUs may be offline, or not allowed for binding, see online_cpuset and allowed_cpuset.
.PP
\fBNote:\fP
.RS 4
Its value must not be changed, hwloc_cpuset_dup must be used instead. 
.RE
.PP

.SS "unsigned \fBhwloc_obj::depth\fP"
.PP
Vertical index in the hierarchy. 
.SS "struct \fBhwloc_obj\fP* \fBhwloc_obj::first_child\fP"
.PP
First child. 
.SS "struct \fBhwloc_obj\fP* \fBhwloc_obj::last_child\fP"
.PP
Last child. 
.SS "unsigned \fBhwloc_obj::logical_index\fP"
.PP
Horizontal index in the whole list of similar objects, could be a 'cousin_rank' since it's the rank within the 'cousin' list below. 
.SS "struct \fBhwloc_obj_memory_s\fP \fBhwloc_obj::memory\fP"
.PP
Memory attributes. 
.SS "char* \fBhwloc_obj::name\fP"
.PP
Object description if any. 
.SS "struct \fBhwloc_obj\fP* \fBhwloc_obj::next_cousin\fP"
.PP
Next object of same type. 
.SS "struct \fBhwloc_obj\fP* \fBhwloc_obj::next_sibling\fP"
.PP
Next object below the same parent. 
.SS "\fBhwloc_cpuset_t\fP \fBhwloc_obj::nodeset\fP"
.PP
NUMA nodes covered by this object or containing this object. This is the set of NUMA nodes for which there are NODE objects in the topology under or above this object, i.e. which are known to be physically contained in this object or containing it and known how (the children path between this object and the NODE objects).
.PP
If the HWLOC_TOPOLOGY_FLAG_WHOLE_SYSTEM configuration flag is set, some of these nodes may not be allowed for allocation, see allowed_nodeset.
.PP
\fBNote:\fP
.RS 4
Its value must not be changed, hwloc_cpuset_dup must be used instead. 
.RE
.PP

.SS "\fBhwloc_cpuset_t\fP \fBhwloc_obj::online_cpuset\fP"
.PP
The CPU set of online logical processors. This includes the CPUs contained in this object that are online, i.e. draw power and can execute threads. It may however not be allowed to bind to them due to administration rules, see allowed_cpuset.
.PP
\fBNote:\fP
.RS 4
Its value must not be changed, hwloc_cpuset_dup must be used instead. 
.RE
.PP

.SS "unsigned \fBhwloc_obj::os_index\fP"
.PP
OS-provided physical index number. 
.SS "signed \fBhwloc_obj::os_level\fP"
.PP
OS-provided physical level, -1 if unknown or meaningless. 
.SS "struct \fBhwloc_obj\fP* \fBhwloc_obj::parent\fP"
.PP
Parent, \fCNULL\fP if root (system object). 
.SS "struct \fBhwloc_obj\fP* \fBhwloc_obj::prev_cousin\fP"
.PP
Previous object of same type. 
.SS "struct \fBhwloc_obj\fP* \fBhwloc_obj::prev_sibling\fP"
.PP
Previous object below the same parent. 
.SS "unsigned \fBhwloc_obj::sibling_rank\fP"
.PP
Index in parent's \fCchildren\fP[] array. 
.SS "\fBhwloc_obj_type_t\fP \fBhwloc_obj::type\fP"
.PP
Type of object. 
.SS "void* \fBhwloc_obj::userdata\fP"
.PP
Application-given private data pointer, initialized to \fCNULL\fP, use it as you wish. 

.SH "Author"
.PP 
Generated automatically by Doxygen for Hardware Locality (hwloc) from the source code.
