.TH "Create and Destroy Topologies" 3 "17 Apr 2010" "Version 1.0rc1" "Hardware Locality (hwloc)" \" -*- nroff -*-
.ad l
.nh
.SH NAME
Create and Destroy Topologies \- 
.SS "Functions"

.in +1c
.ti -1c
.RI "HWLOC_DECLSPEC int \fBhwloc_topology_init\fP (\fBhwloc_topology_t\fP *topologyp)"
.br
.RI "\fIAllocate a topology context. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "HWLOC_DECLSPEC int \fBhwloc_topology_load\fP (\fBhwloc_topology_t\fP topology)"
.br
.RI "\fIBuild the actual topology. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "HWLOC_DECLSPEC void \fBhwloc_topology_destroy\fP (\fBhwloc_topology_t\fP topology)"
.br
.RI "\fITerminate and free a topology context. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "HWLOC_DECLSPEC void \fBhwloc_topology_check\fP (\fBhwloc_topology_t\fP topology)"
.br
.RI "\fIRun internal checks on a topology structure. \fP"
.in -1c
.SH "Function Documentation"
.PP 
.SS "HWLOC_DECLSPEC void hwloc_topology_check (\fBhwloc_topology_t\fP topology)"
.PP
Run internal checks on a topology structure. \fBParameters:\fP
.RS 4
\fItopology\fP is the topology to be checked 
.RE
.PP

.SS "HWLOC_DECLSPEC void hwloc_topology_destroy (\fBhwloc_topology_t\fP topology)"
.PP
Terminate and free a topology context. \fBParameters:\fP
.RS 4
\fItopology\fP is the topology to be freed 
.RE
.PP

.SS "HWLOC_DECLSPEC int hwloc_topology_init (\fBhwloc_topology_t\fP * topologyp)"
.PP
Allocate a topology context. \fBParameters:\fP
.RS 4
\fItopologyp\fP is assigned a pointer to the new allocated context.
.RE
.PP
\fBReturns:\fP
.RS 4
0 on success, -1 on error. 
.RE
.PP

.SS "HWLOC_DECLSPEC int hwloc_topology_load (\fBhwloc_topology_t\fP topology)"
.PP
Build the actual topology. Build the actual topology once initialized with \fBhwloc_topology_init()\fP and tuned with hwlocality_configuration routine. No other routine may be called earlier using this topology context.
.PP
\fBParameters:\fP
.RS 4
\fItopology\fP is the topology to be loaded with objects.
.RE
.PP
\fBReturns:\fP
.RS 4
0 on success, -1 on error.
.RE
.PP
\fBSee also:\fP
.RS 4
\fBConfigure Topology Detection\fP 
.RE
.PP

.SH "Author"
.PP 
Generated automatically by Doxygen for Hardware Locality (hwloc) from the source code.
