.TH "pmix_put" "3" "2015\-10\-25" "PMIx Programmer\[aq]s Manual" "\@VERSION\@"
.SH NAME
.PP
PMIx_Put \- Push a value into the client\[aq]s namespace
.SH SYNOPSIS
.IP
.nf
\f[C]
#include\ <pmix.h>

pmix_status_t\ PMIx_Init(pmix_scope_t\ scope,\ const\ char\ key[],\ pmix_value_t\ *val);
\f[]
.fi
.SH ARGUMENTS
.PP
\f[I]scope\f[] : Defines a scope for data "put" by PMI per the
following:
.IP
.nf
\f[C]
*\ PMI_LOCAL\ \-\ the\ data\ is\ intended\ only\ for\ other\ application
\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ processes\ on\ the\ same\ node.\ Data\ marked\ in\ this\ way
\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ will\ not\ be\ included\ in\ data\ packages\ sent\ to\ remote\ requestors
*\ PMI_REMOTE\ \-\ the\ data\ is\ intended\ solely\ for\ applications\ processes\ on
\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ remote\ nodes.\ Data\ marked\ in\ this\ way\ will\ not\ be\ shared\ with
\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ other\ processes\ on\ the\ same\ node
*\ PMI_GLOBAL\ \-\ the\ data\ is\ to\ be\ shared\ with\ all\ other\ requesting\ processes,
\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ regardless\ of\ location
\f[]
.fi
.PP
\f[I]key\f[] String key identifying the information.
This can be either one of the PMIx defined attributes, or a
user\-defined value
.PP
\f[I]val\f[] Pointer to a pmix_value_t structure containing the data to
be pushed along with the type of the provided data.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
Push a value into the client\[aq]s namespace.
The client library will cache the information locally until
\f[I]PMIx\f[]Commit_ is called.
The provided scope value is passed to the local PMIx server, which will
distribute the data as directed.
.SH RETURN VALUE
.PP
Returns PMIX_SUCCESS on success.
On error, a negative value corresponding to a PMIx errno is returned.
.SH ERRORS
.PP
PMIx errno values are defined in \f[C]pmix_common.h\f[].
.SH NOTES
.PP
See \[aq]pmix_common.h\[aq] for definition of the pmix_value_t
structure.
.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
\f[C]PMIx_Constants\f[](7), \f[C]PMIx_Structures\f[](7)
.SH AUTHORS
PMIx.
